should i request a job title change?
hi all, 
after 6 months of searching after losing my job as design lead at an ecommerce agency, i finally got a job offer from a fintech company as "senior ui designer". my day to day would be primarily focused on updating/maintaining design systems, as well as rolling out new features on their site, and eventually working at some points on a yet-to-be-released app. 
the app will primarily be wireframed by a dedicated product team. my initial thought of "oh, i should request the title change" was immediately questioned internally by "okay, but they also have a dedicated ux team". 
however, as i'm working on web components and design systems, would it be worth requesting "senior ux/ui designer" as opposed to what seems like a somewhat outdated term? 
any input is greatly appreciated!

staffing agency recruiters do portfolio reviews now?
i typically refuse to speak with staffing agency recruiters but i was curious about a listing they sent me and had an intro call with one this morning. after the typical "getting to know you" rigamarole they asked me to walk them through my portfolio then gave feedback on my process and case studies. it kind of through me for a loop because 1. it's just an intro call and 2. it's a recruiter giving unprompted design feedback.
is this normal for staffing agency recruiters these days?

video assessments before interviews
has anyone received requests for video assessments before getting an interview? any thoughts on how companies are requesting this instead of speaking with a hiring team first? if you have completed one, how did you do or did you get the position? 
i’ve had two so far, so this seems pretty new to me and i’ve been very nervous about them. i’ve been laid off for a while now so getting a new role before my savings runs out is crucial to me. after receiving numerous rejection emails, it’s great to get some interest but this new territory is adding to my anxiety. i could really use any tips, heads up or encouragement on doing video assessments or interviews overall. thanks :)

job market is trending positive - but interviewing is exhausting
anyone else noticing the uptick in ux/product design openings? while it’s great to see more opportunities, juggling current work and interviews i think i’m at the point of exhaustion. 
while it’s a good problem to have, any advice on how to manage it? any tips for staying productive at work while also prepping for interviews? thank you.

am i too old to continue and change?
as a senior ux professional with 15 years of experience, i've struggled to find a new role in the ux or design field after being laid off in august 2023. despite my extensive experience, i've only secured three interviews in the past year. i'm starting to feel concerned about how an older designer is perceived and what businesses seek. i'm also questioning if companies are genuinely committed to ux growth. 
its gotten to the point where i'm contemplating switching careers, but unsure if that's a viable option at my age (i just turned 50).
anyone with experience to share is appreciated.

tips for a new job
i am starting a new job as ux designer in a big corporation, and i was thinking what i should change or add to my work style to make my life easier.
i have two ideas: making notes for everything that happens while working and two, always using digital background for video calls. 
do you have some habits that helped you?

i'm considering taking another job after months of seeking design roles, and i'm scared
context: i have 5 years of ux design experience. i had to move countries last year due to some personal life changes, and without a network, it has been incredibly hard to find permanent work. i've been looking for design work for 8 months and i'm so tired. i have an incredibly supportive family, but i don't want to rely on them forever.
i've now been recommended for a job in a different field by an old friend. i hugely appreciate that this friend believes in me and wants to support me, but i'm also scared by taking this side step, i'm essentially abandoning my future in ux entirely. however, i need to pay my bills and i'm running out of financial unemployment support soon. i don't want to leave ux at all, but i can't keep going without an income. 
i'm actually signed with an agency for project-based ux work, but no projects have come in yet so it doesn't mean much. i can't keep sitting around waiting for something to come in, especially as any projects are likely to be short-term, so not a good supplement for full time work.
is this the end, or am i being dramatic? is taking another job for a while a total self destruction in ux?
ps sorry about the flair, i could not find a suitable one

unemployed periods and resumes: leave blank? "freelance?" does it matter?
i spent a year job hunting and, as such, have a gap on my resume. 
i'm sure this is common with a lot of professions, but i feel it is especially true with designers: we're always freelancing. 
so when i see that on a resume, i usually don't pay it much attention...its just how most of us stay interested in what we do by picking up side gigs here and there. 
but is that better than just leaving a blank year on my resume? 
i did do some freelance design work (a few branding projects) so saying i was freelancing is accurate-ish, but obviously i was also job hunting that entire year. 
i guess my question for all you ux hiring managers: would you rather see a year of freelancing, or just have a year gap on the resume?

how is the job market in india?
people who have been in the industry for many years what observations do you have on the market trend?

how’s the job market in australia?
any positive signs?

how's the job market in eu?
hi designers in europe, i want to know how is the  design job market in eu? no hiring or slow hiring?

how much to ask for
hey! so i’m in talks to do a part time contract role at a startup. i have never done a contract role so i am i not sure what to ask for. 
they used a design agency and want to hire a designer to add features and keep everything updated. i have about 2-2.5 years of experience. 
not sure what is a good range to ask for. i plan to first ask what there range is too. but what should i ask for minimum?? 
i also work at another startup but isn’t funded yet so no income there just equity so let’s keep that mind too😭
if you need more info, lmk! thank you!!
update: i live in nyc

should i modify my past job titles to compete in this job market?
hey everyone, i could really use some advice here. i’ve got **5+ years of total design experience**. for **4 years, i was in communication & motion design**, and i even led teams in a well-known company. about **1 year ago, i made the switch to product design**. during that time, i led a team of ui/ux designers with 2-4 years of experience.
now, here’s where i’m stuck. i recently got laid off and have been struggling to get shortlisted for product design roles because i only have **1 year of “relevant” experience**. the thing is, i’ve worked with people who have 2-4 years of product design experience, and i know my skill level is higher than theirs.
i’ve seen a lot of people who switched from graphic design to product design after 3-4 years, and all they do is change their last designation to “ui/ux designer or product designer” on their resume to land jobs. should i do the same? just tweak my past job titles and apply?
i’ve never been someone who lies, and the thought of it doesn’t sit well with me. but i also need to get back into a job. what could be the consequences if i do this? has anyone been in a similar situation?

i'm done doing take-home assignments no matter how hard it is nowadays to land a job.
as many of you i'm also currently looking for a new position for the past few months. i've had several interviews processes all ended at various stages. i take the feedback and improve on top of that. i feel i'm getting better at interviewing.
i've accepted a few tasks during this time for these main reasons:
- i felt i was rusty with the tools after managing for so long and i want to go back to an ic role.
- my portfolio needed more variety, i have worked for a single company for the past 9 years.
- i was selective for job applications based on the overall compensation and i didn't want to be too picky for the hiring process too.
i walked away only once before, they basically told me to critique and suggest improvements for their app, then to take a netsuite screenshot and do it with their own ui.
another task i did for another company resulted in an overall overwhelmingly positive feedback but no offer because they had the feeling i wasn't in love with what they're building. in this task i offered solutions to improve their layout and ux for the comparison of various products. i checked their website the other day and now they implemented a few of my suggestions. which i'm sure many other candidates had thought about it so i'm not particularly pissed off by that.
yesterday i withdrew the second time not accepting to do their assignment. i never met anyone from this company, they only send videos recorded on loom.i had to do a video presentation of 5 minutes about me and an app screen similar to theirs. i sent it on sunday morning and in the afternoon the guy ( founder ) sent me to the second stage where i had to basically solve their onboarding flow.
but don't spend too much time on it eh.
i asked for alternatives, i don't mind whiteboard challenges. i did a collaborative one and a blue sky one and i feel it's a good way to show how you can work under pressure. even tho it feels a bit like your driving licence exam, in the sense that there are a few "right" things to do and ask even if it's not necessarily how you would realistically proceed in the real world.
i asked if there was a compensation or covering for costs ( ux research and user testing was a soft requirement)
i asked if the guy wanted to meet me on a call upfront to get to know each other.
he was adamant that they won't change their process.
they are clearly more interested in your work and not you as a person.
having said that i knew that something like this could have happened. there's always the positive scenario where they ask to work on their product because they cannot judge anything unrelated to what they know. this means you portfolio case studies are basically ignored and they will have a strong bias towards your task result.
it is worse if they deliberately post job ads without any real intention to hire someone but leveraging on several designers free work. mash up everything they like and instruct developers directly. 
now that my portfolio has a few more projects and more variety, but i also understood how difficult it is to pursue a career in ux in 2024, i have set some boundaries for myself.
- i will not accept a free take-home task that is related and relevant for the company business.
- if they want to see how i work on their product and they're invested in hiring me they can pay for the day of work.
- i am ok with whiteboard challenges. they should be between 45- 60 minutes long.
i would like to get your opinion about this and ask you if there is already some sort of manifesto to adhere. that could help us to prevent companies to exploit designers to obtain free labour. it's a difficult (desperate?) time for the industry but this only really works if we are all aligned and define what is not acceptable.

should i take a senior role with a large food/snack corp or a design agency?
after 8 months of job searching, i'm lucky to be in a position to choose between two sr. pd offers. i'm hoping to get input on what considerations i should have when deciding between the two.
**a bit about me:**  
i have 5 years of experience. i'm worked in the internal tooling space for a while with some experience in b2b saas. none of companies i've worked at are recognizable brands. in my recent job search, i've had some trouble getting interviews at companies with saas and consumer products because i don't have much experience with those types of  products. 
* remote work, but it's not a must
* i don't mind faced-paced agency work
* variety in what i work on is nice, but not a must
**my career goals**
* i don't love internal tooling and would love to have options to work on other types of products.
* i'd love to step into a management role sometime in the future.
**offer 1:**
hybrid- 3 days in office at a brand name multinational food, snack, and beverage corporation. i'll be doing working on internal tools that'll help with pricing, sales, and promotions. this is a lot of what i've already been doing in the past. this offer will likely give me better career progression because it's a household name and has a structured career ladder
**offer 2:**
fully remote at a full-service design agency. not totally sure what i'd be working on. this offer will give me a larger variety of products to work on which hopefully will give me more options in the future. i'm unsure what the career ladder looks like here, but i did some sleuthing on linkedin. junior and mid-level pds are regularly promoted to sr. pds. director-level designers have mostly been promoted from sr. pds
pay is similar, but **offer 1** is giving me a sign on bonus that's 10% of my salary. 
**questions:**
* do household names at non-tech companies make a big difference for my career? i'm worried i may miss my opportunity to work at a brand name company.
* does sticking with enterprise and internal tooling cement me in this space forever?
* are agencies not a good choice when i care about moving into management?
i am leaning towards one versus the other, but i'd love to hear thoughts from those more experienced than i am.

i just got the laid off notice
after being lucky enough to not be affected with the unemployed ux tragedy that has impacted so many of us - well that luck just ran out. now i'm frantically applying for jobs (which to be fair i've been looking for a year now while being employed and had almost zero luck). i'm hoping this is a short stint as i've got to provide for my family. i'm curious how long has it taken any of you until you find new employment or have you just transitioned to a different role? if so what was the transition?

story of my 2.5 month long job application (not over yet)
1. call with a recruiter (intro - 30 min)
2. call with pm & designer (1 hour)
3. case study (5 days, 3 pages, presentation doc)
4. case study presentation - pm, designer, hp (1 hour)
5. call with hp (1 hour)
6. call with hp (request of portfolio case study update 30 min)
7. call with cso (unexpected portfolio presentation 45 min)
8. call with hr + vp of data science (1 hour)
9. received 'offer email' without any offer, just salary and bonus description.
10. references check
11. ceo portfolio review (planned)
12. ceo interview (planned)
13. offer? 
long story short, a recruiter reached me 2,5 months ago and suggested a sr.pd role with salary x at a fintech company. after step #8 they sent me an 'offer details email' email with salary y that was 7.5% lower than what we agreed at the start and 45% of the relocation bonus. 
i replied 'sorry it won't work' but then they increased the compensation by 5%, which still was lower than we initially agreed.
now they requested to create a presentation of my case studies which they could send to the ceo. and maybe i will have to present it to the ceo.
at this point, i am tired of the process, and want to hear your opinions — is this the new normal?  
thanks for reading.

bad hiring practices i've observed
be careful about bad hiring practices and behaviours shown during the interview process. here are some (in no particular order) 
1. not disclosing the salary range in the recruiter call. here are some variants i have heard: 
* 'salary is competitive!
* we will know the salary once we level you
* salaries are confidential'
* here, go check out the salaries - \*points me to glassdoor\*. really? 
why would i spend 10 hours of interviewing time including prep, dusting off my presentation, preparing for behavioural interviews if you can't offer me the basic courtesy of telling me where (and if) we align on salary? 
2. negging - this one was the worst. i came out feeling absolute shit after the interview and doubling in anxiety about my skills. the hiring manager was condescending throughout the interview and diminishing the value of my experience and skills as a move to justify the very low salary that was being offered. i was lectured about how the company would offer me a boost since they were well known (i already have worked in a fortune 100 so i'm atleast somewhat vetted and i went to a top 10 school for hci). why reach out to me if you think my skills don't make the cut? 
3. employment clauses that might put you in debt if you end up owing the company money: i reviewed an employment agreement where the company claimed they could throw me out as they wanted, and claim back the sign on bonus. this is non standard, and sign on bonuses are usually clawed back if the employee leaves voluntarily. 
4. hybridization of responsibilities: ux and ui can somewhat go together, if you have a design system in place. but to me, user research requires a different skillset - i've seen roles requiring quant, qual and ask for designers to run both generative research as well as evaluative studies and be proficient in the works of data (all different skills). 
5. leads doing both management and ic work: how does this even work out? do you lead and set processes or do you manage a team? i was approached for one such role but i didn't have lead level experience anyway so i passed. but i see more roles created this way. 
6. recruiters wanting work to be styled according to the latest ui standards - like, how. just tell me how you would do this if you worked on an internal tool.

design tasks are getting ridiculous
for background, i’m a senior product designer in london. started my career in 2013, and have been fortunate enough to work with notable clients. my portfolio has 4 case studies and i offer more private case studies in interviews. up until last year it felt like 2 stages were the norm, with in depth conversational interviews being sufficient. 
present day, and i have had three company “opportunities” in a row. the first company was really positive, gave great feedback and then asked me to facilitate a workshop with them to work on solutions for their upcoming feature. i spent 90 mins with them and ran through about 3 exercises in record time (not entirely realistic but still…) they loved it and came out with some really great ideas. i got a rejection email a day later. their recruitment agent eventually dropped them because they had been repeating that for 2 months without getting close to a hire. i still don’t see the position filled and this was 3 months ago.
at the second company, a large frequent flyer miles company that want to move into business ventures, i passed the phone interview and a portfolio and process interview. i then received a design task which required me to: pick one of their current industries they want to move into, create a concept for a product, create branding guidelines, a business name, mvp design screens and 6-8 week strategy guide for a small team. then create a 30 minute presentation with a 15 minute q&a. i still had not met the actual team i would be working with. they said i should expect to spend 7-8 hours on it, but more if “i really want to set myself apart from other candidates”. i asked for alternative ways to assess my experience and suitability for the role including stellar references, but they refused. i pulled out of the race, feeling utterly defeated.
my most recent company opportunity, an ai fitness mirror company based in london, and i have not met them yet. they asked for a 5 minute video where i intro myself and to pick one screen i have designed. the requirements were “to explain why i used specific colours, why i placed buttons where i placed them, why i chose the padding i went for” they didn’t want to hear about design process, any user research or user journey work, or metrics or outcomes… because this was a role for a designer. i must stress, this is a senior product design role, and not strictly a visual design role. i felt a bit silly doing it, but i gave it my all because i had lots of time to do it. they passed me instantly and gave the next task on a saturday night. they have lots of technical issues with their mirrors which people all over the uk are angry about. the camera basically doesn’t really pick up whatever the person is doing, which makes the fitness aspect redundant. they are recording people without their permission and want me to come up with ideas to get people to record themselves without having to ask for permission for it. an extremely bizarre and unethical approach… but also, they might want to look into engineering better? either way… they’re asking for all the notes i’ll be making, user research, designed screens and advice on what they should do. i have to create another video to send them my work so they don’t even need to waste time meeting candidates. (i have since checked into their financial health and they are actually operating at a loss, have just 4 members of staff and had to put their company at risk to borrow more money- so this may be a wonderful way to get unlimited free work)
i’m sorry this post has gotten long, but i fell in love with this industry and my career was on an upward trajectory - now i feel lost, upset, negative… i worry that this trend will not stop. i’m not judging those that do the tasks, because times are tough and a designer might feel like the hoop jumping will pay off eventually but am i alone in feeling like these companies should all be called out for concept-farming? we are being seen as monkeys with miniature symbols. 
rant. over.

i'm a ux designer who got fired but also got a new job, all within a month. ama
i'm a ux designer who transitioned into ux after going through a bootcamp about 5-6 years ago. i've held three jobs in ux so far, and most recently, i was let go from my past role for "poor performance." i was already interviewing because the environment was toxic, and i felt psychologically unsafe. luckily, i received a verbal offer for a new role this week. it's been a wild month, and it's been beneficial reading other people's stories, povs, and experiences in design with past toxic environments and whatnot. it helps me realize i am not alone. 
i've seen and experienced a lot over the past few years, and i want to share my own experiences so you all can not feel alone. i do not have all the answers - i am just being vulnerable since other's vulnerability has helped me so much. i also know this market is tough and i want to share anything that could be helpful! 
ama :)

tips & tricks for those god awful behavioral interview questions
anyone have any? i’m prepping for an interview rn for a place that will ask me them. it’s such bullshit. it’s so fake. and for me at least, it’s really hard for me to think of answers on the spot, even though i have 20y experience. like really hard. 
i’m trying to practice right now and it’s so boring i want to set myself on fire. 
also it’s literally the hardest thing i’ve ever had to study for… and i took the mcat. 
i made a cheat sheet to use behind the scenes for zoom calls at least, which links to every answer. but it still will not really fly bc you can still tell

the user experience of applying for jobs – literal hell for ux professionals?
you know what i love doing as a job seeking design professional?
i love creating an account in an employer's ats (applicant tracking system) when i want to apply for a job (an account i will probably never log into again). then i love needing to open up my email to verify my email address and activate the account that i just created. oh, did i mention, that i really love making new, unique accounts for every business who happens to use worstday, er, i mean, workday? 
bonus points, when you use autofill in chrome to quickly fill out your personal information on an application, worstday throws an error forcing users to delete some of the characters in the auto-completed form fields and refill them in manually.
feel free to add any user experiences that especially grind your gears as a designer applying for jobs in 2024 😈

canceled portfolio review 2 hours before because the role was filled
i've been out of work for the past nine months since the startup i was working for tanked. i have twenty years experience in digital/product design. i recently made it through three rounds with an enterprise tech company for a sr. product design manager role and it looked promising. i was supposed to have my fourth interview (portfolio review) this afternoon, but the recruiter just left me a vm (i thought it was spam) telling me the meeting was canceled because they filled the role. she literally told me two hours before i was supposed to present! i've been prepping for two weeks! this happened to me once before back in the day with another enterprise company, and it hurt like shit when that happened. 
i'm still in shock, so i haven't gone through all the stages of emotion on this one yet, but i'm starting here by venting to you all. at this point, i don't have any other active leads, and i have submitted over 150 applications. i'm feeling crushed like so many others in the game right now. i don't want to quit because this is what i've built my entire career around for nearly my entire life, but i'm starting to feel at a loss with it all. any words of encouragement or advice would be welcome. cheers and happy friday!

have any of you guys  interviewed at verizon lately?  i have a second round  interview on mon & i hear they’re tough
i did the recruiter screen & now meeting with the consumer group’s director of ux  & some other ux person for 1 hr.
is it all spent doing an overall  portfolio or  case study  deep dive review?
casual talk?
if it’s behavioral questions please if anyone can tell me what they were asked i’d be so grateful - i’m prepping for so many possible questions  that i can’t think straight.
it’s  a  “senior” ux designer  role (f/t)… but it may not actually be so senior - it’s just the job title.

got a job offer with almost 50% increase in my base but i'm not sure because the company seems toxic. what should i do?
so today i received an offer from a startup that is giving me a pretty good 50% jump on my current base. it's not a well known startup but during my interview i noticed certain red flags, the way they were interviewing, very arrogant and got a lot of micro-managing vibes from them, expect designs to delivered very quickly.
while the money is very good, i'm sceptical if i should accept it or not? what would you guys do in such a situation? i am working currently

have you thought about what you will do after a career in ux?
i’m later on in my career and have recently been laid off (2 one in 5 years). this one has me thinking alot more long term about what i might want to do post ux design career. there are no guarantees this job mkt will pick back up and the ups and downs of the past few years are annoying. i’ve been through dot com bust, 2008, etc.
if you have been thinking about this, any ideas? any recommended books or resources? i have a couple passions outside of ux, just not sure i want to turn them into a job.

what is going on with hiring requirements these days?
i have a genuine question. what the f*ck is wrong with hiring requirements these days? 
i’ve got a rejection last week from a furniture business because i didn’t have experience designing for a furniture business before.
today a recruiter told me that it’s not worth putting my details forward for an opening she had available if i don’t have experience designing for large banks, as this role was for a large bank?
i genuinely don’t understand how we’re supposed to have designed for all these niche businesses. isn’t ui designed supposed to be a universal language for every niche/business? 
lost for words. my last role was in healthcare, does that mean i’m just gonna have to do ux for healthcare for the rest of my life?

interview in fintech company - working with data
i have an interview tomorrow for a ux designer role for a large fintech company. in the email they mentioned i should be ready to explain my experience with data. to me, data means qualitative (user interviews, user testing) vs quantitative data (bounce rates, click through rates, task completion rates, etc). but my assumption is that they're more curious about how i work with big data, aka data visualization techniques, interactive visualizations, benchmarking standards, etc. maybe they mean both?
can anyone who's worked in fintech confirm which type of data they'll be asking about and how i should be prepared to answer?
thank you in advance!

staffing agencies for contract roles
folks ask about how to find contract roles through staffing agencies. thanks to someone called [thejobfather™](https://twitter.com/thejobfather__/status/1834222090947285440) on twitter, here is a list of staffing firms. i will add this to the sidebar as well.
i added the urls and tried to verify that these firms staff ux-type positions. i make no promises that they have current open ux roles, nor can i answer any questions about these firms. some firms are global, but the us and canada are more represented here than other regions.
firms like this typically offer fixed-term contracts to work on projects for their clients — somewhere between three months and a year is common. you will not be paid all that well and the staffing firm will take a cut (marking up your hours by 100% is not unheard of.) in the us some staffing firms will offer w-2 employment with health benefits, but you will not be offered the same benefits and career growth opportunities given to actual employees of the client company.
* [2iresourcing](https://2iresourcing.ca/)
* [adecco](https://www.adecco.com/)
* [airswift](https://www.airswift.com/)
* [akkodis](https://www.akkodis.com/)
* [allegis group](https://www.allegisgroup.com/)
* [amaze systems](https://www.amaze-systems.com/)
* [amiga informatics](https://amigainformatics.com/)
* [axelon services](https://www.axelon.com/)
* [corgta](https://www.corgta.com/)
* [dexian](https://dexian.com/)
* [experis](https://www.experis.com/)
* [focus systems](https://www.focussystems.ca/)
* [hays](https://www.hays.com/)
* [high tech genesis](https://hightechgenesis.com/)
* [hr brain](https://hrbrain.com/)
* [idc technologies](https://www.idctechnologies.com/america)
* [itmc systems](https://www.itmcsystems.com/)
* [j connect infotech](https://jconnectinc.com/)
* [jarvis](https://hirewithjarvis.com/)
* [kelly services](https://www.kellyservices.com/)
* [korn ferry](https://www.kornferry.com/)
* [lancesoft](https://www.lancesoft.com/)
* [mnp](https://www.mnp.ca/en/careers)
* [manpowergroup](https://www.manpowergroup.com/)
* [michael page](https://www.michaelpage.com/)
* [next level business services](https://www.nlbservices.com/)
* [nityo infotech](https://www.nityo.com/)
* [ntt data](https://www.nttdata.com/)
* [peritussoft](https://peritussoft.com/)
* [randstad](https://www.randstadusa.com/)
* [robert half](https://www.roberthalf.com/)
* [sra staffing](https://srastaffing.ca/)
* [streamit](https://streamitechnologies.com/)
* [teema](https://teemagroup.com/)
* [teksystems](https://www.teksystems.com/)
* [vbeyond](https://vbeyond.com/)
* [vdart](https://www.vdart.com/)
* [w3global](https://www.w3global.com/)

how old is too old for portfolio projects?
i have a project that's  about \~6 years old now. i've avoided showing it during portfolio reviews because i assumed it would reflect poorly on me because it's so old. i still think it's a compelling story, the visuals aren't totally dated, and i can easily think of some improvements to discuss during an interview. curious what kind of reception people have gotten when showing older work/if age of a project is even that important.

what does it mean if 18 people visited my portfolio but only 4 made it to my case studies?
i've been tracking the analytics of my portfolio and in the past week, i've gotten 18 visits total.
home page - 18, about me - 4, case study a - 2, case study b & c - 1 each
does that mean my landing page isn't doing what it needs to be doing?

need your advice – feeling stuck in my career and confused!
i really need help navigating a tricky   career situation!
i've been at this big unicorn company for over two years now, working as a b2c ux designer and despite all the hard  work, there's been no sign of a promotion or meaningful salary increase. whenever i bring it up, i'm told i'm not doing enough or that the company isn't in a position to offer more than a minimal hike. the stress is constant, and the expectations just keep growing.
recently, i had a tough conversation with my manager, where i ended up in tears because i’m feeling so stuck and undervalued. despite the appreciation i get from peers and key stakeholders, it apparently doesn’t count for much. i’ve been job hunting for the last 2-3 months, but nothing has come through yet—until now.
i've received an offer from a smaller company (about 800 employees) in a senior product design role. there's potential for a 40-50% salary bump, and it's a step up in terms of position. but here's the thing: i'm not excited about it. the idea of moving from a big company to a much smaller one feels like a downgrade, even though it's the kind of role i want. i'm also worried that a smaller company might have its own issues with politics and toxicity, maybe even worse than what i'm dealing with now.
at the same time, staying where i am feels unbearable. i can't imagine watching another colleague get promoted while i'm still stuck with minimal recognition and a tiny raise. it's breaking my spirit.
i'm really torn. should i take the offer from the smaller company and risk the unknown, or should i stay where i am and keep looking for something better? i’d love to hear your thoughts.
(update)
thank you all for such detailed responses. really helped me see through the fog!  they have rolled out an offer and offered me a whooping 60% hike from my current base 🎉

setting the bar high
career wise, what’s the farthest/highest ranking you’ve seen a ux designer go ?

offered mid-level pd role but was interviewed for senior pd role
hi 
i interviewed with a yc startup. went through 4 round, including design assignment of their own product. 
they were hiring for senior pd role and their budget was let's say x. 
they offered me a pd ii role with 35% less of actual budget. they all liked my profile and interviewed me like a senior pd only. should i accept this considering the market situation or should i negotiate and if they don't agree on my number, i should reject the offer? 
only 2-3 designers are there, very young team.

what self-owned business have you applied your ux skills and experience to
some obvious choices are “create your own digital product” and “open an agency.” are there any less obvious fields that you’ve been able to apply your skills and experience to? 
i’m a well paid sr. designer doing ok in my ux career now, but i’m feeling a bit aimless and wanting to try something new. i’ve always wanted to run my own business, but tend to quickly shut any ideas that i have down as likely to be unsuccessful or too risky. just coming here to get some perspective on how others may have pivoted. thank you!

product sense interview for product designers?
i'm currently interviewing for a senior product/ux designer medium sized company. i'm reaching the final stages of the interview process and the final step is a product sense interview with the head of product.
as far as my research online and understanding goes, a product sense interview seems to be similar to the ux whiteboarding challenge but for pms; evaluating how candidates balance user-centric design with viable business strategies. 
given that this is more of a pm focused interview style, how much should designers be expected to know?
has anyone here been through this sort of interview, how have you tackled it from a product designer perspective? 
i've already been through a whiteboarding challenge as well as a take home design task, surely my product sense could be understood through those challenges?  
thank you!

confidence is shattered. how do i recover?
i work for one of the big tech companies. i have been a high performing designer for the past 4 years. however my leadership moved me to a new project (without my consent and against my wishes) where i was the only designer for 5 pms and an engineering team of ~50 engineers. i have been here for close to a year and i have been struggling like never before. i barely have any time to learn deeply about any aspect of the product. since i’m supposed to support so many pms, all i’m able to do is create mocks for the ideas the pms come up with. the leadership expects me to work ‘strategically’ but the ground reality barely allows me to. there is a constant chain of requests for mockups for features and barely any time to understand the problem, do research or testing with the users. at best, i have to rely on the research the pms do and create mocks, at worst i have to say no due to bandwidth constraints. 
this has been seriously affecting my mental health and i’m constantly in fear of being marked as an underperformer. my motivation and confidence is dropping like a rock in a pond. what i’m not sure about is if i’m really struggling to perform or if the situation i’m put in is just untenable. 
i’m considering changing to a different team but even then, i’m worried that my drop in motivation and confidence would impact my performance wherever i go. 
what can i do to regain my motivation and confidence? please share some advice. tia! 
————————
update 1: wow i’m so impressed by all the comments that you all have provided. this is the best community i’ve been a part of. thanks so much 🙏🏽

how did you know you were prepared for a senior design role? or if you’re a manager what qualities are you looking out for?
just curious to gather opinions on the skills designers developed to stand out as someone of senior level since it differs across companies.

what is up with the job market?!
this is a rant! i just heard from a company that they froze hiring after i got a verbal offer. this is the third time something like this is happening! i have been patient through all the interviews and i considered myself lucky since i was at least getting interviews. but even after cracking the interviews, it’s going nowhere! i feel dejected and just sad. 
i had a few roles where they stopped interviewing cos they froze hiring. it just feels like nothing is moving in any direction.

moving from ux to branding?
is there anybody here who has transitioned from ux to branding side of things?
and maybe even more importantly, do the kind of deep, psychology/ sociology -heavy, 20th century style branding jobs even exist anymore? or is it just data analytics and sales nowadays? (at least many brands seem kind of lame nowadays...)

decided to quit without an offer.
i have 2 months of notice period. i just wanna hear stories from people who have done the same and how it went for them? any tips you might wanna share that could help a fellow designer out? anything i can do to upskill myself while i’m applying for jobs? anything would be appreciated.
btw just fyi, i have almost 4 years of experience but in a consulting company.

how’s your job search going?
been on the hunt for 2 months now but this data includes jobs i’ve applied for previously. getting some odd rejections and some optimistic intros. real roller coaster this. 
currently feel cautiously optimistic. 
london uk based.

need help in explaining my user research/testing experience
as a lead uxer, in my previous companies most of the user problems and research to determine requirements was done by product owners/managers or higher and then given to me when i came onto the project.
my process would then be to do my own discovery on each requirement usually asking a ton of questions which the pm would answer or run by the users they had access to. many times, they would also add me to regular weekly meetings where users attended where they would go through my questions, and i would elaborate where necessary.
now, once i started iterating on draft design ideas, they would usually get run by the users and we would get feedback via email or in these user meetings - but i was not running the meetings. 
i guess what i’m trying to say is the scope of my projects did not include ux to be in the very early stages of working directly with users to determine their problems with the existing product or needs for a new one. although often as i dug into the requirements, they would end up being reassessed and the strategy would change due to my recommendations.
soooo i am really trying to figure out how to best explain my user research experience when i did not have dedicated time directly with users to really go through all the detailed process of personas, and full task analysis, 1x1 interviews, and other qualitative and quantitative methods.
i am interviewing for lead/manager/strategy positions, and this will constantly come up.
i have been trying to study more ux research methods and techniques and would like to take a more in-depth course as soon as i get a job and have some money but right now, i have to work with what i have.
please help. i am so tired and have been out of work for a while now and am just so embarrassed that i have so much experience and have been doing this for as long as i have with these very evident gaps (due to the companies i worked for) that might be preventing me from getting a job. i can't know for sure, but companies seem not to hire for potential anymore (knowing the candidate can do the work, even if they haven't exactly done some of it yet in their past experience).
thank you...and sorry this was so long.

the disorganization is driving me mad. what other role could i do?
i work at a total mess of an organization. this will be my 6th employer and it is by far the least organized. we’re talking extremely basic stuff in product development.
i’ve had previous positions where we had a “product leader.” their job was nothing but setting up meetings, discussing timelines, keeping things organized and streamlined. 
i’m highly considering finding a role like that to save myself. have you had someone like a “product leader?” no, this isn’t a product manager, this person just makes sure stuff is organized.

am i ready to step up to full time ux design, or just overthinking it?
i feel like i’m stuck and i need some external perspective/straight talk.
a bit of background; i got a degree in 2006 and started as print designer. i loved print (still do) but after 18 years and 3 jobs designing i needed more. my role at my current place has evolved over my tenure, from a strictly print design role, into video, web platform management, email production, and now ux. i really enjoy ux design, it makes me feel like i did about print all those years ago. i just don’t know if i’m any good at it. 
i hit 40 this year, and the ten year mark at my current company, and decided it was time to look elsewhere. i’ve been engaged by a prospective new employer (first interview is done) for a ux designer role which pays almost double my current salary, and they’re keen to take advantage of my app experience - which is solely based on being part of a cross-functional cross-business working group in my current company. i’ve been heavily involved in a majority of aspects over the last two years, from sign up and data management, branding, content updates, user flows, ui design, etc, all to great standards according to the dev agency pm (who has become a great friend over the process).
now, to the part that has me doubting all of it. 
we’re currently working with a new supplier to develop the second version of the app and i was sent a figma file which their ux designer had put together. i’ve always prided myself on knowing the programs and technical side of things - but this figma file was something else. i’ve made app prototypes in figma with components and interaction before, and thought i knew my way around, but this had everything. she’d basically thrown the kitchen sink at it. dynamic components, user flows, design elements that i wouldn’t even think to do in figma. it left me feeling…intimidated? not ready? like i was making a mistake trying to go further?
i’m keen to gather perspective from people in the know. am i bordering on a mid-life crisis and overthinking, or am i really not as ready as i thought i was?

tips on handling nitpicks that don't have strong arguments
i'm a senior-level designer (3-4 years ux, 5 years graphic design). over the 2.5 years i've held a full-time job, i've encountered this type of design feedback over and over: a senior (always senior) engineer strongly making lots and lots of nit-picky suggestions that don't have strong rationale. it's not just one senior engineer - there have been more than a few. it's like they are getting so invested in the design that they comment on anything they can think of. the problem is that they dig their feet in when i say "i recommend we go with \[this other design decision\] because \[reason.\]" i only try to turn them down this way when i think their suggestion is a worse decision - if neither their idea or mine is better then i'll make the change they're suggesting. i also often ask them to elaborate on the "problem they're noticing" to see if this is just a matter of miscommunication.
here's an example: i post a design for review, and they leave feedback. they prefer "primary" over "default," they think the copy says "edit" too much, and 3 or 4 other similar comments.  
this feedback usually comes during a review, but sometimes it comes after the design is approved and in staging. i think it's okay to turn down some feedback, but i'm afraid it hurts morale to turn down the majority of it without at least exploring it.
note, i work at a small startup that need to move extremely quickly. i don't have a more senior designer to go to.
has anyone dealt with something similar? how did you keep your team's morale high and continue to have a good working relationship, without making the product worse?

employer on resume for contract: contracting company or client?
when working a contract, what is the best practice for listing who the work was done for?
just thinking if you're a contractor for xyz solutions and the client is google, should you list google as it will resonate better on the resume and that's where you did the work? or do you list xyz solutions as they're the one who is giving you the paycheck?

head of design and can’t find a job
(i’m sorry for another one of these.)
i have spent the past 9 years working in digital agencies. i started as a front-end developer and gravitated towards design and ux. started with mainly websites and moved on to more complex web apps. 
i had finally found a decent career that i enjoyed and was great at. this brought me a strong feeling of relief, as i was a bit lost before this. i was promoted to senior and then to head of design (it was a relatively small team). 
i always thought my previous titles (senior ux designer, head of design) would carry enough weight to secure me another role once i decided to move on from agency. i deluded myself into thinking this would be easy. 
long story short, ieft my previous job in march and i still haven’t been able to find a role since then. 
i’m not trying for fancy big tech roles. all i want is to earn like 130k aud in a medium sized company in australia. the effort required to do this feels completely disproportionate to secure what is really just a job in an office.
anyway, there’s my story. just wanted to get it out there. i’m having a really rough time. living with my parents. stressed beyond belief. the self doubt and imposter syndrome is immense. any pointers or advice would be welcome. 
edit: i am well aware that titles at smaller agencies can be 'inflated'. i don't expect to be able to waltz into meta and interview for the head of design role, and this is not my goal. i am currently only applying for ic roles (e.g. senior ux designer). some comments here suggest that it might be wise to adjust my ‘head of’ titles on my cv to better align with the wider industry norms. i’ll give that a shot. thanks, everyone!

feeling stuck and uninspired in the saas design world - how to transition?
hey everyone
i’m a product designer, 3 years of experience in designing saas products, customer tools etc. i’ve worked mainly in startups where i have to build products from scratch with very limited customer feedback, and limited number of users actually using the product. 
lately i’ve been reassessing my career goals, and i felt like continuing in this b2b customer tool space is not what i’m looking for. 
i’m the “maker” type who loves to focus on craft. my strengths lie in visual design, prototyping, interaction design. i’m learning front end development as well and i particularly lovee design mobile apps! i know the app space is super competitive and there might not be as many opportunities out there, compared to the b2b space. but i’m just feeling too drained having to fight everyday for visual design and user experience  - all the companies i worked for did not care about them too much, as long as the feature does not suck and customers don’t scream about them. i understand them from a business pov, but it certainly drained me, and suck the joy and love out of me. 
i’m trying to accept the reality and not stressing too much about it. but i get more and more unmotivated everyday. i don’t know why i am needed here, except to design solutions only for it to be torn apart, “scope cut” they said. since changing mindset does not work, i’m considering looking for opportunities outside of saas / b2b designs. 
my question is: how should i approach this transition. 100% of my real, shipped design work are b2b webapps. i have a few pet projects that are mobile apps. with 3 years of experience, what should i expect if i want to make the transition? will i be considered less experienced if i apply for an app design role? any advice or thoughts would be be greatly appreciated 🙏🏻

leaving a remote job for a hybrid position is scary
i've been unhappy at my current company for a while now. the environment is super toxic. i got insulted to my face about the work i've been doing by the one manager because his team refused to adopt the platform we've been building and he tried to blame it on the design. although the ceo backs me up, there are just too many things that are making the situation unbearable. i recently got a job offer for a senior ux position at a large firm, everything sounds really great. the biggest catch is that it's hybrid and when i do have to work at the office, it's 50mins away. although it's really scary leaving a fully remote job for this and having to travel long distances twice a week, i've reached the point where i'd rather be happy in a company where design is prioritized than work for a startup where you wear multiple hats. it's really annoying that smaller companies expect you be the designer, the developer and the pm just because it's a startup. im tired of startup culture. i want organization, and stability and one job that i can master. is that unreasonable?

how many years of experience do you say?
it's obviously very common to move into ux design with a visual design background. but how do you answer a vague question like, "years of design experience"? i've been working for 16 years. some of that was creating branding that was then applied to designing and building company websites. some of that was marketing design. some of that was service design. some of that was digital product design. none of those are able to be sliced neatly into specific time periods. i am a bit of a generalist based on my background but i want to do specifically digital product design. so how do i answer this question? if it's just years of experience working on a digital product then i guess i can only say 2 years and that will probably not be enough to get me another job.

had anybody else bombed an interview before only to receive an offer?
i think i just messed up my interview i has today at a big company and i feel like all my 2 weeks worth of effort has gone down the drain. please help me cope

anyone from revolut?
hey folks, looking at applying at revolut and hearing quite mixed reviews about working there. 
anyone have any first hand experience or knowledge? it feels like a good space to work in but not to the detriment of life/mental health.

have a design interview @ microsoft with an engineering manager for an hour. what can i expect in this call?
anybody who has given this round before, what sort of questions can i expect?

what's the best way to prepare for a panel presentation
hey everyone,
i could use some advice from more experienced folks here. i've been asked to present a project to senior leadership at a tech company as part of an interview process. they want to see how i approach design challenges, make decisions, and what i would do differently if i had to do it all over again.
**the challenge:**
* **project showcase:** i need to choose a project that best highlights my capabilities as a product designer. i’m expected to walk through my role, the design decisions i made, the trade-offs involved, and reflect on what i might change if i had to do it again.
* **future vision:** they’ve asked me to present my thoughts on how user experience can evolve in the tech space, especially in areas that are currently not ideal. i need to propose a new approach to a problematic user experience and explain my thinking behind it.
# what i’m looking for:
**project selection**: any tips on selecting the most impactful project? should i focus more on technical complexity, innovation, or user impact?
**presentation tips**: how should i structure my presentation to effectively convey both my past experience and future vision within a 30-minute timeframe?
**design philosophy**: when discussing how i would improve a subpar user experience, what frameworks or thought processes would you recommend i use to articulate my ideas clearly and persuasively?
i’d love to hear how others have approached similar challenges. any advice, resources, or personal experiences you could share would be greatly appreciated!
thanks in advance for your help!

clear expectations by the browser company for a  sr uxr role
happy to see that a job listing that explains what is expected of the employee in the first three months.

need advice. should i stay in design? do i leave? where can i go? i feel so alone (long)
hey my lovely people, i need to get some advice. 
i really love this field. i worked very hard to get here. i know we all have. but i didn’t have the option to go to college. i taught myself, then did a bootcamp (yeah, trust me, i know, absolutely trash) continued to teach myself even more, and managed to get a job. 
i was an interactive designer. then i left, started in startup as ux/ui designer, promoted to senior, was given title of lead (i don’t have the skill set to be considered a lead), ran their design team, marketing team, branding etc everything creative and visual.  
i’ve been on projects for fortune 500 companies, i’ve done enterprise, consumer facing, web apps, mobile apps, vui / conversational design, automotive designs (seats / huds / apps etc) i have led and worked on multiple native apps, at  least 3 on the play/ app store for public and multiple web ones that aren’t.  
i was laid off because the startup ceo essentially made a lot of bad choices and tanked his company. i should have bailed a long time ago. i didn’t. 
this market is brutal. i have been rejected so many times my imposter syndrome is through the roof. i feel like i don’t have a place here in this career field. it’s only been about 2 months, but i’m starting to doubt if i should continue to try to be here.  
i feel so burnt out. i don’t think i can survive interviews even if i get one. especially when they want you to do a portfolio walk through, take home project and multiple interviews. 
even if i do end up super lucky and get a job  is it going to be like before? the start up treated the developers like gods and never held them accountable for anything and they constantly disrespected me. i was never allowed to do my full process. 
i don’t know if i have the oomf to keep going. to stay up with tech, be doubted 24/7, fight to be allowed to do my job correctly, to be worried about being laid off again. 
i feel like i don’t belong here, even though i desperately am trying to be. i have multiple chronic illnesses, so i have to be remote. which i feel is also hurting me in my hunt. 
i guess the tldr is: 
i’ll take any advice. i feel so lost. and tired. i’m so exhausted of putting in overtime and trying to prove myself. i just want to do my job and get my bills paid.
what other careers are verticals to ux/ui? i’m not cut throat enough. do i leave? where do i go? i thought i finally found my career and was getting a break in life. 
if you made it this far you’re my hero. thanks for letting me scream into the void.

balancing loyalty and opportunity: seeking advice on career choices
i'm looking for a wide variety of opinions on a situation i'm facing. i've asked a few people in my circle, but i'd love to hear what you all think.
currently, i'm in a role that i really love at a company working on some interesting subject matter. i came across this job after being laid off from a large tech company and spending a brief, exciting, but somewhat rocky time at a startup. while the role offers some fascinating projects, the pay isn't close to what i was previously making. despite living in a high-cost city, i've managed so far.
recently, recruiters approached me with some intriguing opportunities. out of curiosity, i started the early interview process, and one role, in particular, offers significant "ikigai" lifestyle potential and much better pay. unfortunately, i was recently taken off a project i was excited about—not due to performance, as i'm doing very well, but because my current team lacks the influence to keep me on this high-impact project. i'm staying on as a part-time consultant, but i feel the company is missing out by not leveraging my expertise. i'm also bummed i'm not going to have this project in my portfolio. this makes me consider whether i should "vote with my feet," though i worry i might be letting my ego get in the way.
my previous role was a short tenure, the shortest i've ever had in a full-time position, and i felt embarrassed about it. before that, i was at a large tech company for four years, which i believe shows my loyalty. there are many reasons for the short tenure, which i can share if people are curious, but i'll keep details anonymous for now.i haven't been in this current role for a year yet, and i don't want to be seen as a job-hopper. however, it seems foolish not to pursue an obviously better opportunity. additionally, my current role is relocating offices, which will significantly impact my quality of life by more than tripling my commute time over an expensive toll-bridge. this feels relevant to my decision to consider other options.
what do you all think? have you faced a similar challenge? i'm very concerned about my industry reputation and want to be seen as a reliable colleague and employee. it would really bother me if i were thought of as a flake or an opportunist, or if i did something that hurt my reputation or brand. but the other role is enticing and i'm still going through the interview process since it seems silly not to, if only for practice, but i feel fraudulent or unethical while i'm doing it :(. have any of you faced a similar challenge and if so what do you think about short stints or evaluating candidates with short stints?

building network in a new city
i moved to a new city (and country) a few years ago, and i've been working remotely most of the time. while i enjoyed the extra time with the family, i realised i don't have a solid network of seasoned design, product or tech folks over here. let's define 'seasoned' as those with 10+ years of experience (i am one myself).
i've met a couple of people over some events but not sure how to stay in touch afterwards. i've also attended a meetup but it seems the attendees skew towards more junior ones (of which i'm happy to share my experience to them of course)
does anyone have any tips?

career advice
hey designers!
please advice me on this situation : 
i am working at a company on contract for a certain time period. during interviews, recruiters mentioned they wanted to take me full time but because of some constraints cannot right now. they will consider it at end of my contract based on my performance so far.
i am working with a senior designer who has some 10 years of experience and worked previously in a faang company. 
this didn’t matter to me. but his incompetence is surprising hence i mention this. 
he isn’t able to articulate his thoughts, comes up with very less number and variety of solutions, kind of gives up easily when we are in a tough spot with devs and pms. 
i have been handling a lot of load, which i don’t mind. but i get a sense that my contribution is not being reflected correctly to the managers. 
also he is my only point of contact most of the time and he is not able to tell me the requirements clearly. he goes to pms or devs and then gets back to me. all this leads to lot of rework and unnecessary delay. 
should i raise this issue now or when i am being evaluated for full time at end? 
should i ask for a raise if i am being converted into a full time since i am doing far more than him already? or is it overestimating myself?
ps : little bit more about myself. i have around 5 years of design experience, not all ux though. have masters in interaction design.

i got the job!!!!
a while ago i posted asking if it was normal for a company to ask for your figma files + figma slides links after you present your assignment to them for an interview. 
i really appreciate all the advice i got from so many senior and veteran members of this community and now i feel really confident taking on this role! 
it was a tough competition for them, they did tell me given my health, they did have concerns about my performance, but they said they were really happy to give me the role for the way i presented them with the solution that they wanted me to have the role and though it was an assignment, they want to go ahead with all the suggestions i proposed for their product! 
i really had a lot of questions about me taking on a senior role again and my imposter syndrome was really kicking in with my cancer treatment going on at the time of this interview. 
i am so grateful for everyone on here who guided me and lifted my spirits through this journey and for everyone else out there looking out to get back in the workforce again, this is a gem of a community where so many people are always waiting to help and guide you and be with you! 
i really appreciate every bit of help and support i got on here, so, thank you so much! i know working for a startup isn’t really like a dream job at a faang, but the “why” of this company so deeply resonated with me and i’m really excited that i get to lay the foundation for a wonderful product like theirs. this will have been the most impactful work i’d ever done so far in my career. 
again, thank you so much for everything!

should i mention being laid off during job interviews?
it’s been about 3 months since i was laid off, and i’m still actively job hunting. i’m wondering if i should mention the layoff during interviews or if it’s better to keep quiet about it. i’m feeling a bit unsure of the best way to handle this situation. any advice? i am based in canada if that helps?

refining my niche: how specific is specific enough?
i once believed that a diverse portfolio would attract more design opportunities. 
however, after 10 years in the industry, i’ve realized that focusing on a smaller niche allows you to excel and attract higher-quality clients. 
i’m currently refining my niche, leaning towards saas design, but i still feel it might be too broad. how would you narrow it down further?

has anyone had a recruiter ask for a copy of your driver's license in order to submit an application?
there is a recruiter working for an agency who reaches out to me every couple weeks for various ux roles. usually, they have me email the recruiter basic demographic information (name, dob, city/state), references, and attach my resume and portfolio. this morning they called with an opportunity at a large financial institution. they said the need to fill this role was urgent, and i would be interviewed by said institution within the next 24 hrs. the timeline is odd, but the rest seems standard for recruiter experiences. it's also worth noting that they offered $75/hr for this position whereas they have offered $55-$65 in the past. they also did not ask for a portfolio, although i have it linked in my resume. 
however, when i received email requesting my information, they asked me to send a photo of my drivers license. this would have gone to the recruiter's email, not the financial company's website. when i stated i was not comfortable doing this, they called back and said it was required. when i declined again, he said they would move forward with my application but his manager would reaching out to discuss the license issue.
i have never heard of something like this before. given the urgent time pressure, tempting wage, and request for id before anyone has had a chance to talk to me about my work, i'm wondering if this may be scam. is this a thing recruiters are doing now?

hiring manager wants me to take an online cognition and personality test
that's a first, at least for me. had an interview with the recruiter which went well but before proceeding to the next round i have to take an epp (employee personality profile) and cognitive test. is this a red flag? they say it's a better way for them to understand me than just having a regular interview.

how many slides per case study for interviews and time for each case study?
i am currently a lead ux designer with some management experience. i am trying to either stay on this level or fully move to management. 
i tend to be overly detailed and long winded so condensing my very long case studies from my portfolio website down to figma presentation slides is really really hard. i am also realizing now that i talk much more about discovery and process rather than the details of why i made every single design decision. 
some of the reason for that are the projects that i thought were worthy of case studies are a few years old and i am no longer at the company so trying to dig through all my notes (a lot of which was online on their servers which i didn't save for myself before i left) for every single design decision is really tough.
also, i thought it will take way too long to describe every single design decision on complex projects - especially in a reduced case study slide deck format. 
but i have an interview on tuesday and i have to get this together. 
so, in an hour interview that might or might not ask to see my work or case studies (recruiter said to be prepared for anything) how long should a slide deck be? meaning how many slides per case study and how much time should i spend presenting each case study - not including time spent on questions? 
thank you and sorry a lot of this was more of a frustrated vent :(

ux/product design jobs in montreal canada
hi all, i'm a french designer who's going to be moving to montreal soon and i'll be looking for a job there. i keep reading on this sub about how tough it is right now to find design roles, and i'm guessing a lot of you are in north america?
it worries me a little bit, so i was wondering, does anyone know how it is currently in canada and specifically montreal?
i have 4 years of experience including 2 years of apprenticeship (with my current employer who then hired me full time as a product designer + product owner after my masters).

don’t have a lot of metrics in my portfolio working at startups - any ideas how to improve case studies?
so i’ve been a ux designer for over a decade and that entire time i’ve been working with startups. i seem to always be on small teams and am constantly just trying to increase the ux maturity inside these orgs. my last two roles i’ve been inside a couple of really bad product teams that really didn’t track any metrics and just sucked to be blunt.
i want to move into a larger design org inside a large company, but my lack of metrics and  outcomes i think is hurting me. i’m also stuck in an nda on my last role and can’t show any design work, just have to discuss everything verbally.
these are some bad breaks in my career that i haven’t had a lot of control over, but hiring managers really aren’t going to care that i’m on horrible product teams.
any ideas on how i can make my case studies and myself more attractive to larger companies?

didn’t even get to the screening stage at google.
that's about it. very disappointed as i had some legit hopes, i know folks there and felt my work was comparable and i had good feedback from faang mentors. 
obviously i was mistaken. 
hope everyone else's job search is going better.

what else to expect from interview with head of design?
i moved on from the recruiter screening.
recruiter told me it should take about 30 minutes, and they’re likely to ask me about working in teams and moments where i’ve taken initiative.
given that and your own experience, how best would you prepare for this? what are some questions you would come prepared with?

am i a ux designer, developer,  or stuck in between?
i’ve been in the ux, ui, design system roles for about 10 years, but lately, i’ve been feeling pretty lost.
in the last few years, i’ve gotten really into designing for implementation—coding micro-interactions, making sure everything works in production, and fitting it all into a design system. my last job even moved me to the front-end team when they found out i could code.   
i loved bringing designs to life, but i struggled with the deeper coding aspects, so i didn’t really fit in with either the ux or dev teams.
on top of that, i’m constantly coming up with weird product ideas and challenging myself to build them. i’ve ended up learning about databases, apis, and more, which makes me feel even more stuck between roles. it's becoming an obsession.
the hardest part is finding a job that fits me. in interviews, i often come off as too technical, and while people seem impressed, i still get weird looks... especially in this market.
anyone else been stuck in this kind of limbo? how did you find your place?   
i’d really love to get mentorship and advice at this point...

headhunted for senior roles and then told i’m too junior
hey everyone, i’m a uxd with ~3 yoe and not actively looking for a new position, and lately this situation has happened a couple times where a director or hiring manager (at real, established companies) reaches out to me and tells me they think i’d be perfect for a senior position they have due to my specific industry background/experience shown on linkedin. i get to the presentation or final round and then get told they’re actually looking for someone with more experience. 
i’m not falsely advertising myself as a senior or fabricating any work or experience on my resume/portfolio, but it’s disheartening to feel interviewers’ disappointment as i’m presenting said work as if they expected more. it makes me feel like i’m lacking as a designer and confuses me why they would reach out in the first place and let me get that far in the process.
i realize i should probably just suck it up and accept that they’re just casting a wide net, but i’d still appreciate any advice on navigating the imposter syndrome in these situations or if anyone’s experienced something similar. thanks in advance :)

what can i expect from the panel round for the interview process?
i wouldn't even say this is a senior career, i'd say more mid-level.
i have interviewed at many places but haven't had a panel just asking me questions. 
1. i had a screening call.  
2. had a 30 min chat with the lead designer, and she just asked me typical questions about my process, my greatest accomplishment as a designer, etc.  
3. portfolio review with another designer, lead designer and i believe a pm.  
4. (haven't got here yet) final round, a panel of i believe another designer, a pm and a developer just asking me questions.
typically i've just done a screening call, a portfolio review with a small panel, and then sometimes a quick design activity or a 1 on 1 chat with a lead. 
what can i expect from the final around with the panel? what kind of questions might i be asked? i want to be sure i am prepared if i get to this round.

have you applied for jobs without a portfolio successfully?
i am a ux designer and have come across a couple of job ads that i like the look of - i currently only have a very very dated portfolio but am keen to apply.
have you ever applied without a portfolio? i know i have to make time to produce a new one but in the meantime is there anything i could do to still apply? was thinking of showing snippets?
what are peoples experiences?

graphic design as part of your product designer role?
i just started at a startup who has started to ask me for marketing support. they want me to do email teasers and now asked if i can make a white paper. never once in my career have i done either. i’m not sure if they know that it’s not my role or if they don’t know. how often do you typically have to take on this type of work and if never how would you manage telling them politely no? they’re my bosses boss so it’ll be tricky to outright refuse.

changing director and assoc. director titles on resume to principal / lead designer. any advice or thoughts?
i'm currently out of work and was laid off in march. i work in content marketing as a ux designer and strategist, focused primarily on websites, content hubs, and digital editorial content design.
i was promoted to assoc. director in 2017, and director in 2022, but was essentially a team of one helping lead multidisciplinary teams on projects from beginning to end from 2019 to 2024 when i was laid off. unlike those titles at other agencies, i didn't manage people, didn't have direct reports, but was indeed involved in pitching, new business opportunity ideation, organic growth with existing clients, i mentored younger junior designers on the creative team, and did a lot to improve our design process, evolve to use more cloud-based design tools, and was big into keeping our creative team inspired with great work from around the web.
i am of course looking for new opportunities at equivalent title levels, but i worry that any company considering me for those titles will expect a bit more experience than i have. as more of an ic type of designer, i see myself as a bit more of a principal or lead designer (and really wish that i'd asked for those titles when i was promoted in the past). i do aspire to continue working towards management and leadership level positions where i'd for sure be a director, but my question is...
is there any harm in changing those titles on my resume to lead or principal designer, and explaining that i had different titles, but that being a lead or principal is really more of what i was? have any of you worked around issues like that when looking for work?  i'm looking for all kinds of opportunities and don't at all mind a simple ux designer position as long as it offers good opportunity and the $ is what i need it to be.
i really appreciate your advice!

what was the most complicated product you've ever worked on, and what were the hurdles?
i've just started working with one of the most complicated enterprise software i've ever worked on(there are a lot more complicated ones, but just within my own experiences, this is the top one) and i'm not sure how long i will last tbh lol, cause it requires so much studying of the product itself and i feel quite exhausted.
what about you? and what were the hurdles you had to overcome?

guess the company…
i want the job, prob won't get it if i try, but this is the hiring process... after a screener...
process
- folio review by desing team
- then design skills pres 2-3 projects (1 hour) 2 weeks
- then a home task (week, brief mobile or web, 3 options, proto and pres)
- then review task
- then design life challenge - whiteboarding (something that takes place in life - build an app for a restaurant).
- then culture fit interview
- then head of design interview
- then speak to hiring manager for mutual fit.

breaking into ux – 12 year plan
breaking into ux seems to be a hot topic, so i thought i'd share how i did it as a designer with no prior experience.
4 years: education  
received a broad design education covering graphic design, ux principles, research, web production, storytelling, and motion graphics.
4 years: design support  
supported ux designers as an agency production designer, learning real-world ux processes by observing (and being stuck with) the decisions made by my ux colleagues.
4 years: non-ux senior/lead  
paired with ux designers to create polished consumer product design. took part equally in the ux process, while being responsible for the non-ux aspects of product success. gradually took on more formal ux responsibilities.
finally: ux design lead  
after having enough practical experience to build a solid ux portfolio, i got my first opportunity as a ux design lead 12 years into my career.
i hope this provides some perspective to aspiring designers who are frustrated by a lack of immediate success. it's a long road, but satisfying design careers can be built from any starting point, while you gradual working your way to your ultimate goal, and you can create lots of great user experiences along the way, even without a product/ux title.

i’m considering a career change after 10 years in digital (6 years ux/ui). are there former uxers here with any successful career change stories?
it’ll also be interesting to know what transferrable soft and hard skills you think there are from our world to others.

i’m burnt out and need help, please.
my last job really did a number on me. i was wearing way too many hats. working 60-70 hour weeks on average. and then suddenly let go due to the company going under. 
it was an extremely toxic environment and i should have left a long time ago, but i was dumb and guilted in to staying. i accept all the blame and have learned from it. 
but i’m so tired and burnt out. i need a job. i love being a designer, but i’m so burnt out on start up and tech bro culture. 
the job market isn’t helping either. i feel defeated, 1 in 600+ applicants? what’s the point? (besides keeping a roof over my head, which is adding to the burnout stress wise). i’m also terrified of being laid off again, the way i was let go was very messed up, and is something that will stay with me for the rest of my life. i don’t think i can mentally handle it again. 
i feel jaded, and exhausted but don’t want to give up my career. where’s a good industry for me that needs design but isn’t tech focused? 
tldr: is there anywhere for a ux/ui designer that isn’t ai obsessed/get rich quick/tech bro culture? if so where? how can i get my foot in?

ux adjacent jobs advice
i have been a uxer as a solo individual contributor for about 10 years at the same company. i am burned out after being stretched thin. i am considering switching to another position that is adjacent to ux at a different company since i am severely underpaid and at a dead end job. has anyone being in my position and thinking of pivoting? what did you do? thanks for reading.

i am a con-designer
hey there, this is a throw-away account.
so, if you are wondering if one is a con-designer then one probably is one?!
**background**
i have been in product design for 8 years now. having no formal training in the ux or tech field i created a fake portfolio to get into the industry at the beginning to get my first gig. prior i worked as a construction worker and taught myself sketch and design theory at night.
since then i had multiple jobs in the industry. ranging from small local start-ups (i live in europe) to 2nd (3rd?!) tier tech companies from silicon valley.
however, i was never able to stay at a job for longer than 1.5 years. i always quit because i am scared i will be found out as the con that i am. in every company, there was little actual design work from me that was shipped. most of the time i have done a lot of research, facilitated workshops, was involved in design and product vision/strategy formulation, and concerned myself with design team growth initiatives (designops, hiring playbooks, planning offsite, etc.)
in every company, i got good performance reviews. there was never a performance review that was not rated "above expectations". however, i believe this as well is due to me being able to sell myself well, or for lack of design org maturity. basically, design managers who would not know how to properly assess performance accurately.
my ui skills are lacking. if i were put on the spot in a real interview situation to come up with a solution, i think i would be able to produce something and show my problem-solving skills. even if not very smoothly. but if the interviewee would then ask me to design something live in figma i would fail miserably.
right now i am working as a senior designer. my portfolio is heavily embellished (no fake projects though). i always felt that i was just getting the gigs because i am very good at selling myself in interviews and because there are no live design challenges.
my therapist continues to work with me on my self-worth issues and imposter syndrome.
still, i believe i am not a good designer and that i am a con artist because i have never done a real design project from start to finish that was actually shipped. only smaller features. but now i am already a senior and frankly i need the money to provide for my family. for me design is just a job, i don't care too much about it. it is mostly the money, tbh. i literally need to put food on the table for a lot of family members (i am from a poor eastern european country)
i do try to improve every day by copy work, improving figma efficiency, reading a shit ton (design theory, design leadership, systems thinking), and engaging with the community. since i started 8 years ago i also got a ba and ms in business part-time. but it feels like as second job now to become on par with my job title. 
so, am i a con artist? how can i go about it to change that? should i go back to junior-to-mid-level jobs? should i leave design because i just care about money? it is hard to put in words but the situation is just so exhausting. i am questioning myself every day.
any suggestion about how to go about it would be much appreciated. especially from your experienced design manager out there. how would you coach someone like me?

trying to stay within ui/ux design and pivot it to work i enjoy more.
i'm a ui/ux designer and have been doing this kind of work for up to 10yrs now.
i really don't like the ux side of things, especially research, personas, testing etc.
i prefer the 'on-page' kind of ux where you solve micro-problems mainly to do with the ui rather than the big picture.
not big on strategic thinking.
prefer the ui side but find websites, data dashboards, so repetitive and formulaic. there's not much to enjoy. it's just more components and elements each time. not much variation or creativity in it really.
so my question is how can i remain in ui/ux design and enjoy it being a very visual kind of designer and less strategic, and needing more creativity and variation in what i do rather than just the same restrictive stuff time and time again?
or do i need to pivot to a different area of design like graphic design, branding, motion, 3d etc?

salary negotiation coaching
has anyone here worked with a salary negotiation coach? who did you use and how did it go?
i want to work with someone who’s familiar with product design or has worked with product designers in the past. bonus if they’re familiar with startups and typical startup packages. i want someone who can clearly outline tangible steps but also help me be confident when it comes to negotiations and conversations about money. i’ve been doing my best but i fear i could be making a lot more and want someone to help me become the badass i know i am. also, i’m not interviewing or changing jobs right now. this would be for a yearly review. 
more context: google searches have been intimidating and the sites that are coming up either don’t feel right or are confusing or don’t have product design coaches listed. i did find someone named nick finck and also careercoach.design which both look interesting

saw this from a job posting for a senior product designer. is this process typical?
https://i.redd.it/u5kwr7n3k1jd1.png

any former industrial designers here?
if so, do you think about going back into industrial design? i would in an instant if there were opportunities where i lived… i’m amazed how disorganized the software industry is in terms of product development processes.

any designers here currently working in north europe? (denmark, sweden, finland etc)
i want to secure a job there and would like to connect with people there to get some basic understanding of the job market, skills needed etc. thanks in advance.

how to break into other industries when you have been in one for so long?
i've been working as a ux/product designer in the video streaming industry for the past six years before getting laid off last fall. with the way the streaming industry is going and me just wanting to do something different, i'm finding it difficult to break into other industries such as financial, b2b, healthcare, etc. my portfolio is mostly streaming and a little e-commerce. does anyone have any advice on how to break into other industries when you have been working in one for so long?

a positive rejection
https://i.redd.it/u23ehfyxuvid1.jpeg

ux job market - is it still worth trying?
i'm a mid-senior level designer with programming experience. i, like many in tech, was laid off and i've been out of full time work for 1.5 years. i took a break from trying for the last few months and i'm wondering if others are finding jobs.
how has job hunting been for the rest of you? should i keep trying to get a product design job or should i give up and do something else while the job market recovers?

contract work - hurting ability to progress/get hired?
for the past few years i’ve worked as a contractor. for the most part, i’ve enjoyed it. ive had some flexibility to move around and take some extended time off between jobs. 
now, i’m starting to wonder if my time contracting is hurting my chances to grow as a designer and find work. 
my previous contract was the first time working for a large, well known tech company. the team was great but most of my work involved supporting busy fte’s and doing the projects they didn’t have time for. it was mostly minor feature improvements, with no user research or testing. it felt like i pushed pixels most of my time there which doesn’t really lead to compelling case studies. 
this is quite frustrating as i now look for work. i thought i could leave the contract with at least one strong case study but right now i’m struggling.
curious if this is a common experience when contracting for large tech or faang companies at a mid/senior level. has anyone else struggled putting together portfolio worthy case study projects after contracting? and how does this look from a hiring managers pov if i there are very few full time roles on my resume?

ideas for how to suck it up, keep calm and do a design challenge
i have three companies right now interested in hiring me. i've been applying to roles over the past year and a month. i have had a few small projects, and i tried to do a design challenge a month ago.
i took a look at every designer on li and the hiring manager. it was 0 for 7 portfolio-wise on linkedin and google search. the hm did have a portfolio at one point but was a dead link. most of the people were fairly new to ux and live in the home office area. i couldn't do it. i was so mad, confused by the 4 sentence task, and not sure how i'd spend two hours designing something and then defend and workshop it with them for an hour. i just pulled out citing all the reasons above, and did not get into my philosophy on design challenges as a whole.
my background- 15 years advertising and design art director (i dont care about the visual layer one bit right now, since ux is so poor—let's make it work first, then make it 'cool' if it matters), 9 years ux design, 4 ux research and 3 ux strategy. 19 of the fortune 500. i have 15 highly annotated case studies ranging from user testing, application model creation, ui design, user interviews, and i have a mapping of all my methods and which applied to each job.
so now, present day:
1) the first wants me to review their app in its current state, and give ideas to improve it. no hiring manager portfolio, but did work inhouse at a health care company for 25 years. also has the title "creative director", and that role itself is worry—no research. the bosses just want ideas and building things. no testing, and i asked how do you understand if it's working or not? it's a startup and each team figures out what to build, so it's really all ui. this is likely the easiest challenge, but i am actively doing work by reviewing it. but this one has a third red flag—it's going to be marketed to health care companies, but the idea is to crowdsource treatments from patients. if you have a diagnosis, you can connect to this social network for ideas to help with your issue. everyone contributes, no doctor oversight, but the idea is to circumvent or add options of home care via other people using the app. kind of like reddit has channels. the mission is interesting, but not based in science or medicine—but others' methods of self care or support. i see both sides of it as i have a few chronic conditions were doctors dont say or do much. (they are complex issues.) (also i think in this case from my metrics, the hm saw my resume and either spent no time on my site except the home page, or spent 30 seconds.)
2) numero dos just sent me two options—both are two hours work, one hour presentation. one is to redesign something i saw and didn't like. the other is a leadership app, where mentees can sign up to learn from executives and how to make it engaging. again, no research or any data to start with. i did have a project where i did something similar, and may just say "guess what? i have something in my portfolio" or keep it to myself and spill out my real work along the way. this one i want to see their site, because again, no ux portfolios.
3) pending... we will see what their technical interview portion is.
so how do i keep from blowing up, or trying to teach them lessons? any success stories? and how do you fill an hour? everything thus far in all three roles are basically ui jobs from what i am gathering. i did two in person way back and i was as confused as the interviewers. i swore not to do them again and turned down 3-4 in the past year even in the bad market.
i also do discovery research projects, and am thinking about number two just taking my direction, directives in the final deck and exploring that as a design ui task.
i know my future if i decline the exercises. just back to the pavement. it's been really quiet jobwise, but it sounds like all three of these are active and would like to get someone hired quickly. 
any help, commiseration, techniques you might have done, or frankly if you say "duck out" of the interview process, that's cool with me.

trying to put together a job description for a bit of a unicorn role
i work in a small team of designers at a startup and some of the work requests are becoming unmanageable for us. so i have negotiated the possibility of hiring a contractor while we are not able to add headcount. currently we need help with a couple of data visualization-centric projects. and besides that, we would need someone to help get started on our design system project as it is all over the place in its current state. so if i was to put out a job description for someone who has these preferred qualifications, would it be a reasonable request? i tried to look for some industry-standard titles for such a role and could not find one. i’m wondering if this is outrageous lol.

cross functional interview with front end engineers
hi there! i have a cross-functional interview next week with some front end engineers for a product design position. i'm trying to prep myself and get ahead of some of the questions and topics they might be asking me. it's a 60 minute session that revolves around general things like process and collaboration, feedback etc.
i've asked a few fe friends and they said they would probably ask things like
*  how do you resolve situations where an engineer disagrees with you?
* have you ever used code to communicate an idea?
* how do you deliver feedback when an engineering implementation isn’t in line with your designs?
i'm also anticipating a lot of "tell me about a time when....."'s as well.
does anyone have any advice for these cross-functional interviews? anything to add to this list?

portfolio service
hey everyone,
i've worked in the industry for 6 years and started as an intern.   
i think its time to move onto a different company, but that requires a portfolio first.
i am in the process of gathering the files and documents relating to all my projects and contributions, but i think i'll need help crafting a portfolio once i do.
are there services or professionals that cater to this need, can any of you share info/links?

resume writers that specialize in senior ux designer roles?
a few months ago i got my resume overhauled... but it's not ats friendly and the resume writer had no grasp of what ux design is.
should i find an experienced resume writer that understands what ux design is and can get my resume past the ats gatekeeper?
anyone have any recommendations or things to look for in a resume writer?

how & why did you get into ux?
i am a current college student interested in ux, pretty much just looking to see some of the paths people have taken to get into ux. anyone and everyone can respond to any of the questions i have below, or provide any other information, stories, or experiences you would find helpful to share. thanks in advance! :)
if you went to college, did you start working in ux right after graduation? were there any courses that were particularly helpful? did you do any ux-related internships?
if you went to college but did not work in ux right after graduation, what did you do before? what made you switch? are you happy you made this switch?
if you did not go to college, what made you end up in ux? what challenges did you face? do you find yourself going about projects/tasks differently than those who went to college?
and for just about anybody to answer, did you ever have any sort of backup plan? if you were not working in ux, what do you think you would be doing? what is your favorite part of your work?

password protected portfolios and portfolio link in resume.
i’ve been wondering how do people who password protect portfolios link there portfolios in resume when applying in a company through a job portal? you would have to make your password public by mentioning it in the resume or you just don’t put your portfolio in the resume at all.
how do you guys tackle this thing?

public portfolio content
why do most of the case studies i see in public portfolios talk very less about the process or in general are very high level?
i assume it’s because people want to have something to talk about in the interview when they show their portfolio by themselves but i’m posting here just to confirm if my assumption is correct or not.

red flags?
a company approached me for a product position and there are several steps to the process to interview. there are so many things that seem like red flags to me but it got to the point where i’m second guessing myself. 
for context, i’m a lead ui/ux designer and front-end developer.i’m not entirely sure what a “normal” product manager role entails but from the list of roles and responsibilities they sent to me, it’s very similar to what i currently do. 
i sent them my portfolio without them asking and the person was like “we’ll pass it on to the hiring team” which i see as a red flag but there are a few more 
- they want me to complete an assignment before the interview. normally i am okay with assignments because there are too many people faking their portfolios but i’ve never spoken to anyone at the company. not even for an introductory call.
- i have 5 days to complete this assignment but it doesn’t guarantee an interview. the outcome of the assignment will determine if we go further in the process. 
but im including a link to the assignment because i’m curious if this is a normal type of assignment o expect for a product manager role? i’ve only ever had developer or designer assignments to do.

worried about future of design
hi. ive been doing design for 10 years, mostly visual design. now im a bit worried about the job market. 5 years ive been doing freelance and contrast to 2 years ago, job market was much better.
ive been considering switching to front end dev as i have a bit experience from that. 
whats your plan for future or do you feel the job market gets better?
thanks

how to get into roles that require "data visualization experience"?
for designers/hiring managers in this field:  
- what would you consider relevant experience for a senior position?  
- what's different about data visualization design (and i'm thinking data dashboards, fintech, etc - not nyt type editorial visualizations) that makes the skills acquired by building other products less relevant? i mean you're still following design methodologies and create libraries?   
thanks!

is this a reasonable response? after applying, they requested completing a design test, took around 4-5 hours (and i thought i did a great job), and then i was hit with a generic rejection email. rubbed me the wrong way, so i felt compelled to respond. thoughts?
https://i.redd.it/54yd28k9txhd1.png

solid project from someone at faang
i asked if folks had any good reference projects from faang designers and mod removed it because i "should do my own research" (love it). 
so, here is, imo a really good example of a project, great story telling, decision making and results. 
enjoy. 
https://www.simontpoole.com/argos-checkout

california freelancers
what is a good hourly rate for a senior level designer in your opinion?

interviewed twice this week, when should i follow up?
as the title says, i interviewed at 2 companies on monday this week. i followed up after the interview with my thanks to both. both interviews went well and the next steps were discussed in both, both seemed eager to move forward, one of which said they were looking to hire this week. both strongly implied i'd passed the interview round, and had discussed further calls this week.
i want to follow up on these interviews, but i'm not sure if today is too soon. my wife thinks it'll be construed as me bugging them, but i think it'll be more like interest in the role on my end. i know it's not even been a week yet, but i'm eager to move forward with them, or at least get an answer.

product designer being asked to be a qa engineer and a ba
i am currently interviewing with a company with this job description - 
responsible for interacting with business stakeholders and gathering requirements for a web based global application. responsibilities will include creating user interface design, requirements documentation, and quality assurance. the web application is part of data exchange portfolio. experience required: • 5+ years of experience with application development lifecycle • 5+ years of experience in designing user interfaces with customer centric approach. • 5+ years of experience in quality assurance and automation tools • experience with api, java, angular, springboot, microservices and cloud implementation experience preferred: 0 additional safety training/licensing/personal protection requirements: additional information: hybrid position person needs to be onsite for onsite days defined as part of hybrid model.
skills: required: • 5+ years of experience with application development lifecycle • 5+ years of experience in designing user interfaces with customer centric approach. • 5+ years of experience is quality assurance and automation tools • experience with api, java, angular, springboot, microservices and cloud implementation preferred: • security related experience (access reviews, disaster recovery, icrs, acrs, scrps, etc.)
in my first round, i told them that i’ve no experience with qa and automation tools, so they asked me if i can learn it. so i said yes to just get this job. i’m selected for the second round and i’m not a fan of coding while being a designer. what do you guys feel? do you have any suggestions or questions for me to ask in my second round of interview?

i’ve been solo designer for most or all of my 13 years. when it comes to applying for jobs i have no idea what my “level” is
lemme just pin the idea, “it’s not about time in the seat that matters. what matters is exposure to the right experiences” at the top
i’ve taken two years and change to be a stay at home dad and get through my deep burnout after getting laid off in 2022. market shitshow aside, i plan on entering the market again.
like in the title, i have no idea where i am level wise because i’ve worked solo for so long. 
solo work has a weird effect where it makes you really advanced in some ways but then because most of your time is spent with engineers or analysts or management, you end up smelling a bit different. 
in some ways i wonder if i’m not truly senior since i have no experience working on a design team or developing/coaching junior designers 
on the other hand, when i look at level competency grids, most of it sounds familiar with the big exception of being considered a “subject matter expert” which tends to be associated with principle level designers. 
the concept of “subject matter expert” is kind of weird to consider because i can’t tell if it means that you have marketed yourself well enough to have been invited to give a presentation or three or if it means you invented some new design paradigm like pull to refresh.

for the recently employed, how many jobs did you apply for and interviews did you have before being hired?
curious the average number of failed applications are the norm before you should redo your portfolio / cv

let's talk about something positive!
i'm sure there are people out there who love their careers as ui/ux/product designers. 
what do you like about your job? 
what inspires you? 
are there any projects that have made you feel particularly proud?
please share your stories :)
edit:
thanks for all the comments! it was fun reading yall's story. i'm so happy that you guys are enjoying your career. :)

where do solo designers find support and community?
hi everyone,
i’m currently the senior and only product designer at a startup, which means i often have to wear many hats. while i enjoy the variety and the challenge, it can get quite lonely without peers. i’m looking for ways to connect with other designers and find support and community.
i know there’s many other solo designers or part of a small team here, so where do you go to get design support or a sense of community? are there specific online communities, forums, or networks that you recommend? how do you manage the stress and isolation that can come with being the only designer in a company?
any advice or resources would be greatly appreciated!

success metrics in resume - do they work?
i’m polishing my resume a bit and wondering if i need to incorporate impact on arr, valuation, nps score etc?  my resume right now is pretty straightforward about my responsibilities which has worked to get me interviews before 2022.  but linkedin has started to create some doubt (hello posts about how we need to include metrics to stand out 🥴)
as a hiring manager myself, i have not put a lot of stock into that kind of information, that is i’ve never moved anyone into the interview phase without a good portfolio.  resume has always been a supporting document in my world.  a resume with that kind of data has also felt overkill personally.  would love to hear from other hiring managers!

quality over quantity
https://preview.redd.it/flr21bd5fugd1.png?width=539&format=png&auto=webp&s=5ea203e91cdfec59baf995b0f780ea5d1d968353
my experience looking for ux jobs in 2024. for context, these are senior, primarily remote positions in the eu. i was extremely picky where to apply and only applied to places that have direct mapping to my experiences (b2b tech jobs, highly technical). wasn't in a need for a job, just wanted to experiment from a safe place how would i fare in the job market today if i could afford to be very picky.

whiteboarding round, bazaarvoice
has anyone here interviewed with a company called bazaarvoice? i heard they have a white-boarding round and would appreciate it if someone could tell me some questions they ask...

thinking of switching my role, but too scared.
hey all, i am currently a product designer with 5 yoe and i’m seriously frustrated of not learning anything in my current remote role. i work in a small design team in a non design forward company where software is a part of the entire hardware suite we have. the engineers get a lot of power and there’s hardly any investment on design which is frustrating me now. i do have an awesome manager but he’s not a designer, he’s a senior pm, and i am afraid i’m not learning anything much from him or not having enough of an environment to learn from or get inspired from. with being so young in the industry, i really want to move to a proactive team, with a larger investment in design, a more professional approach and a mentor to learn from. 
the more time i spend here, the more independent i am and the more i feel like my growth is stagnant and i’m falling behind with where the world is going. i’ve made up my mind to look for new roles, but i’m going through a severe imposter syndrome that i’ve not learnt much or forgotten everything i knew in the last 3 years at this role, and i’m feeling very demotivated to work on my portfolio. 
i am just constantly lingering around the feeling of not being good enough, and all the hard work i did previously in my job hunt is already causing a burn out when i think about how taxing the entire job hunting process is in tech right now. i’m also considering a hybrid role, and a move to seattle from raleigh, to get more exposure and more opportunities. can you please give me some honest feedback on this? i’m also severely underpaid and that’s also a feeling seeping into me everyday. 
after all the hard work i put into my portfolio, what’s the chance i will even get one call? most people, posts i see around are just complaining and not landing even a single interview and even if they do, they’re getting rejected. 
i seriously need some positive reinforcement right now for me to get a head start. i know i’m capable and i’m a good designer, but i’m thinking there are much better designers than me out there and that’s really intimidating me to a great level.

2024 job search results
https://i.redd.it/ri4xv33ovkgd1.png

case study format - where does the whole requirements gather process go?
ughhhh i meant "gathering" in the title but i can't edit it now :(
--------------------------
i have been struggling with condensing my webpage case studies down to slides because i tend to be long winded and i think the details matter.
one area that i have always been way more thorough and detailed than other uxers or product managers i worked with is fully thinking through all the functionality that a feature needs - way beyond the requirements from users or product managers. i basically excel at "unrealized needs" and detecting any gaps in functionality and design to make sure everything i am working on is comprehensive, cohesive, and standardized through-out the website, application, and product ecosystem.
now, another uxer could come up with the same solution at. high level but there will be cut-corners, functionality gaps in other parts of the product, additional functionality that should be added to the feature for good ux will be left out, etc.
so, i do not know how to show or express this in case study slides. i am way more detailed then many other uxers i have worked with but these case study presentations are at such a high level i feel like this is sadly missed :(
any advice would be greatly appreciated.

which is the most difficult and complex industry to design for?
some of my nomination, feel free to disagree
b2b saas seems relatively difficult because of complicated business models and workflows that you need to understand to empathize with the users.
e-learning and education tech seems complex as well because you need to crack student psychology using gamification to encourage course completion.
healthcare also seems complex and difficult because you need to understand a lot of medical theory and procedures
what has been the most complex from your experience?

case study presentation on an mvp - format/what is important to share?
hi all,
i have an mvp case study but i'm having a hard time distilling the most important parts for a 10-15min presentation for an interview. much easier for a feature enhancement and a lot less context to share... if anyone has advice on how to structure a case study for an mvp would love to hear it! tried looking up some youtubes and such on case study presentations but did not yield a lot of results. thanks!

is it really necessary to have prior saas experience to work for saas companies?
i've noticed a lot of job postings from saas companies asking candidates to have, "5+ years of designing saas products." 
i've designed mostly customer facing web and mobile apps, but only a small portion of my work would be for a saas product. i guess i'm not sure if i'd be lacking in certain skill sets or design approaches because my limited understanding of the differences in saas is how the product is deployed and its pricing model. 
was hoping someone could shed some light on this for me, thanks in advance!

anyone who has gone through revolut live design challenge (whiteboard session)
i am currently in revolut's product design hiring process. and have cleared the technical interview & take home assignment. now they have scheduled a live design challenge, there are a lot of different opinions on how to conduct these sessions. i am specifically interested if someone has already gone through revolut or a similar company's live design challenge. how did you do it? any tips/suggestions will be helpful.

would you work in an industry that you personally don’t support?
one of the only companies offering me an interview opportunity is a web3 / blockchain startup. i personally don’t really believe in the potential of web3 or it being the future, i don’t think anyone understands tech will take it seriously. i need the money though, will it affect my future job search if i am involved in a web3 project or using it as a case study?

advise from hiring manager
hi. i need advise from hiring managers in ux.
context:
i have been rejected from jobs that i felt i was a strong fit to based on my experience and background in those domains. i have held fairly senior level ic positions such as lead/principal/architect and have 14 years of experience (first 4.5 in industrial design and rest 9.5 in ux design). my portfolio also has projects related with ml based product, cloud, saas, insurance, wealth etc.
situation & rant:
i am unable to grasp how having a solid profile and a strong match to several of these enterprise staff/senior/lead etc level positions, i am either not getting hr call or after getting call and passing through 1 or 2 rounds, getting rejected. it wasn't this hard only about 3 years ago. in addition i have some of the renowned academic institution names on my resume. could you please share where i might lacking? i do have a strong focus on interaction design however in my roles, i have delved in research, visual design, testing etc numerous times. i am hoping that for a senior+ level, my profile should stand out. but that may not be the case. 
just very disappointed. also, from the jobs i was rejected, i strongly felt i would have done a great job because i am so passionate about enterprise ux and the domains i applied to. 
i am confused:
what is happening here? are visual masters/beauticians taking over and rejecting me? i am just very frustrated so please ignore the cynicism. i am not un-employed but looking for a better fit and work i would love to do. i do have some grey hairs that i do not shy away from hiding. i am not a native english speaker but i have fairly good comm. skills however perhaps not a match with a native speaker.

should i request to be paid for extensive interviews?
i’m in the third and final round of interviews for a senior product designer role at a large tech company.
the first round was a quick screen with a recruiter, the second round was an hour long call with the hiring manager.
the third round consists of an hour long portfolio presentation with a panel of 8 people (a mix of design, product, and eng), and then separate 45 minute 1:1s with all 8 of those people individually (5.5 hours total). i have to take pto to accommodate this.
this feels a little excessive… it’s been a while since i’ve interviewed elsewhere - is this standard? should i consider asking to be compensated for the time?

what certificates/licenses are seen as valuable or meaningful for lead/senior product/ux designers?
i have time on my hands at the moment, and i am wondering if there are any courses/certificates that provide any meaningful value.
i know there is a distinction between practical learning that helps you in your day-to-day, as opposed to learning or training that might be recognised by potential employers (in the form of a certificate/licence).   
i'm mostly interested in the latter in this case.
i am primarily interested in learning geared towards more experienced seniors/leads and can bolster your application beyond your work experience and portfolio.
so i'd love to know if there are popular certificates that employers see often or even look for.

ux freelance out of dubai
i’m a sr. ux designerr. currently working in canada for a major video game company. i have about 7 years experience. to keep things short, i want to get out of canada and be based in dubai, i think it’s better for me at the moment. has anyone been able to do that? serving clients from europe or na? i worry about time zones at times. i wonder about platforms like top talent and how consistent this would be. on the other hand, i find that tech companies are lacking in the uae. and that working for outside the company has a better outlook.

laid off for the first time. what do i do?
i’ve been laid off. wasn’t because of my performance, just no need for my position anymore (or so they said, you know 😂).
i have emergency savings to hold me off for about 3-4 months. 6 months tops if i’m frugal as shit. then i’d have to dip into my retirement stash.
should i look for a full-time job again and settle for a little less pay, or try to risk it and find contracts? i’ve been toying with this idea for a very long time. i have 3 years of experience.
but where do i even find contracts, if so? (don’t need to be full-time)

don't fall for linkedin phishing scams just because you're desperate.
some "recruiter" sent me a vague message about an opportunity and asked me to send my resume before sharing details. after i asked for details first, it became clear it was a phishing scam.
the rush of endorphins i felt seeing a recruiter in my inbox nearly floored me, but if i hadn't taken a moment to collect myself and had sent my resume, i would have been hacked.
exercise caution, even if you're on your hands and knees praying for a job, and feel empowered to ask for details first before proceeding.
related note: if you have a pdf download of your actual resume on your website, take that shit down. at the very least, make a public-friendly version without your personal information just out there for anyone to steal.

maybe i just suck
i’m having problems converting interviews to offers and i’ve come to the realization that maybe i suck as a designer and there is no place for me in the field anymore. i’ve been in the field for 14 years and never had issues before, but i’m in my 8th month of unemployment. although i never had issues getting interviews, i cant seem to convert any to offers. i paid for coaches on adp to help with my portfolio, sought out so much feedback on my portfolio, changed my portfolio a couple of times, tweaked my presentations, tried work on my story telling, nothing is working. maybe my portfolio still sucks, maybe the projects i have in there are stupid and maybe i should consider doing something else. im at my wits end and i’m at a loss for what to do.

job app question
hey all. i'm filling out a job application for a job that i just verbally accepted. it states when listing my previous employers, "you may include any verified work performed on a volunteer basis."
i recently did some free design work for my partner's family's medspa. i did not have to sign anything and obviously was not paid, so no tax documentation. am i still able to list this down or could i get flagged? i don't want to risk anything.

head of ux vs individual contributor
hi i would like to get your opinion on career progression and which option to chose. 
my background: i had a role as head of ux/ui and have been laid off recently. i started my job search and it’s going quite well, i’m getting quite many interviews. i’m applying primarily for head of ux/ui roles. 
now a recruiter got in contact with me about a contract role as an individual contributor. the contract is for one year. i’m now in the final round, there’s me and 2 other candidates. 
now the question is what should i do if i get the offer. from a career standpoint, the ic role is a step back. also the contract is limited to one year. however in the contract role i would earn about 50% more than in a role as head of ux/ui. 
if i get the contract role, would you take it?

imposter syndrome and new job anxiety
hi everyone,
i've recently accepted a role - moving from an in-house team to a small agency. i start in a couple of weeks and am already having that sick feeling in my chest like it was a bad decision, and i should have stayed in the comfort of the current role (despite the boredom and insane politics).
in my heart i know it's the right call, but i can't seem to get by brain to agree - and i'm going through all those usual 'what ifs'. 
any tips from people on how you have handled this in the past?

feeling lost in this field
hi everyone! i’ve been a ux and product designer for almost 5 years now and i’ve been struggling with finding clarity on what’s ahead for my career. 
i understand the paths of career progression, but it makes me question if things that most designers go through get better? sometimes i feel so much dread and burn out at my job, and it makes me feel like this isn’t the field for me and i should transition to something else. but the scarier part is that i don’t even know what i could transition into, and i start feeling a lot more stuck and lost.

i have an interview with google tomorrow
i would appreciate some guidance and advice. if you could get on a zoom call or even share a valuable comment would be immensely helpful 
my presentation will have 2 projects, both led by me (4-5yoe) 
project 1 is enterprise software ecosystem of portals (huge project with 40+ slides after compressing) 
project 2 is b2b pitch of a b2c product with research, workshop and prototype (comparetively small project with 15 slides) 
it’s a ux position 4+ yoe.
so far i have had one session on adp list, got amazing feedback and made the required changes. (story telling, easy to follow presentation, get to the point, show personality, large font etc)

why does ux hiring lack ux?
i am seeing an increasing number of ghost postings by companies, or positions that have been for a very long time. this could either mean that the team is fishing and doesn't have a clearly defined role, is being extremely picky or it is a fake role. it's hard for me to believe that a company has a req open for more than a month in this environment where there are talented designers - even those with directly transferable industry experience. if this is fake and intended to lure people in, it is unethical. period. it's one thing to be an agency/company and mention that that the role is speculative and is for future consideration, so that people can know where they will end up, and quite another to claim they are hiring and yet not respond. 
second, there is an increasing amount of ghosting and mistreatment of candidates. long winded processes, low rates, tests and companies simply not getting back to most candidates. which again, leads me to think whether the role was just a pretense. people write detailed cover letters and are being asked to write, re-write their portfolios and come up with clear value propositions, only to be ghosted. it can really mess with one's confidence. 
why isn't there better ux and service design in the hiring process? if candidates are asked to ensure that their portfolios are scannable, concise and attractive, why isn't there a similar effort being invested into hiring? is there no business objective tied to ensuring a good hiring experience? 
i have lots of questions, but hiring seems totally random and not meritocratic in this environment. i've been looking for a while now and i can't see a way out or think of a way to hack this process.

2 designers 1 project
i’m currently a mid-level designer working alongside a senior designer on a project and i can’t seem to feel like we’re actually on a team. she works insanely fast-paced and tends to miss out on important details. i noticed meetings for user-testing with clients regarding our project that i wasn’t invited to. collaborating on design work is tough because she has a way of doing things and i feel like i can’t operate in her design environment.
what are some ways i can be more involved and actually be seen as the second designer on this project? or am i just in my feelings??

what ux deliverables to show that will get you hired on your case studies?
i recently had final  interview then suddenly the interviewer is looking for deliverables that is showcasing my ux skills, and i am not able to show anything 🥹
i am planning of recreating undocumented works i've done, which deliverables that most hiring managers look for when reading case studies?
i feel that there are too many deliverables, but which one where we should put the most effort?

is it possible to land a job without case study? pure visual?
anyone who had a job without creating case studies? i'm trying to make studies but it's a bit difficult when the works aren't well documented despite having process.

how do i withdraw my job application candidacy, currently nearing the offer stage
i’ve currently been on the job search for a new role (like many of us here).  
i am currently employed as a senior ui/ux designer at a small marketing agency. i have 7yrs experience, and while the start of my job search was very slow and unfruitful, i have been able to land multiple round interviews for roles with various different companies ranging from large corporations to agencies similar to where i am currently at.
over the course of my job search, i’ve been able to hone in on exactly what type of new environment i want to end up next (in house corporate) so from now on that is where i plan to focus my applications toward until i land the role i’m looking for.
but as of right now, i am currently nearing the offer stage for a role with a small agency having already completed and passed 4 interviews and the take home project, all that remains is the c-suite interview.  everything about this agency and team is great, i am just not passionate about the work that they do, and i know if i got hired i would just want to leave as soon as possible.
i am currently in the 3rd round for a corporate role and it’s feeling good so far, plus being that i am currently employed, i don’t really feel pressured to take this coming offer from this new agency.
how do i withdraw my candidacy for the agency role, without burning bridges with the agency and the recruiter facilitating my candidacy.  i know i’m their first pick and that they want me badly, i just don’t feel the same way.

questions to ask the ceo
a friend of mine has cleared two rounds of interviews at a startup for a product designer position. the next step is a conversation with the ceo scheduled next week. i would really appreciate it if you could share your experience on the types of questions to ask, how to ask them, the order in which to ask them, and any advice on topics like company culture, compensation, and the product roadmap

how to be more interactive during a portfolio presentation and is it normal for the presentation to be recorded?
hey folks! i have an interview coming up where i have to present my portfolio. the company provided a guide on tips and how to prep. reading through, it states they value interactivity and discussion. what are some good ways to touch on this? initial thoughts are showing videos/gifs demonstrating the ui. maybe pull up a clickable prototype?
also, it says in the guide that the presentation will be recorded. i'll be asking the recruiter before what they plan to do with the recording. any insights here? is this the new standard? maybe i should ask them to sign an nda to protect myself?
thank you!

will working as a graphic designer affect my future ux design career?
after graduating with a degree in visual design, i worked as a junior ui/ux designer at a design agency for three years, handling various projects. recently, i came to the u.s. to pursue a master's degree in ux design and graduated this year, but i haven't been able to secure a ux design job yet. due to my visa status, if i don't find a job within a month, i won't be able to stay in the u.s. however, i found a graphic design job that can sponsor me. i plan to work at this company until i receive my green card.
will my experience as a graphic designer negatively impact my future prospects of securing a ux design job?

any autistic folk have advice on preventing burnout?
long story short, after 4 years of ux writing, 1 year of product design experience, and a prolonged leave of absence due to severe burnout, i was laid off back in 2023.
since then, i haven't job hunted much as the idea of returning to the environments i've worked in trigger anxiety and panic attacks. earlier this year, i was diagnosed with autism and adhd, which helps explain why the expectations of these ux roles (meetings, client calls, unclear expectations) caused me to end up where i am.
as much as i love so much of ux, i'm struggling to see how i can carry on in this line of work. ux writing was definitely a better fit than product design, but i just don't see many job postings for that role anymore. unfortunately, i cannot survive without an income, so i'm feeling a bit lost at the moment. 
if there are any other autistic designers, i'd love any advice on what's worked for you. alternatively, anyone have ideas on less socially demanding roles?

risk of transferring work copies to personal computer
hi everyone, i was wondering what everyone's stance is on sending copies of your work (notes, figma files, research insights, etc.) from a work computer to a personal computer?
in most of my contracts, it states that i'm required to forfeit my work to the company i work for when i leave the company.
i'm also aware that many companies can track what is sent/received from their company laptops. i'm assuming they can see things that i send via email, via flash drive, and via airdrop.
has anyone ever gotten caught for this? should i risk doing this to keep a record of my work? i'm worried about potential legal disputes of holding on to copies of my work.
i've heard some people just take pictures of their computer screen, but this seems cumbersome and tedious.
thoughts?

career question re: staying or leaving a role
i am an experienced ux designer with over 20 years experience in the field. i’ve worked for advertising agencies as well as product design for large and small companies.
i’ve had a focused career with also a lot of variety. 
the challenge i’m facing now is that i’m in a role, where there isn’t much opportunity to make ux improvements on the product due to its high regulation and internal challenges like dev availability. 
i very much like my boss, the client, and the work/life balance… it’s all great. i’m also getting paid the most i’ve ever made in my entire life. not to mention work from home. 
my concern, however is if i stay at this job, i might not have much to show whenever i leave. i’ve been at this job for only nine months so i’m still giving it time. 
i am going to be introducing the idea to my boss that i’d like to take on more work outside of my current client.
there i expect to have more ownership and ability to make things happen more than i am with my current client. 
ultimately, i’d love to know if anybody else has been in this position, and what their thoughts.
someone said to me, there are three things you should care about your job. are you getting paid enough? do you like who you work with, and do you like what you do? i can answer the first two with a “yes”, and the last one with a “somewhat”. 
i’d like to be able to retire in 10 years so i guess i’m in the later stage of my career.
again, the major concern is having something worthwhile to show future employers. thanks in advance.

virtual interview tips f a hiring manager
hey all, i wanted to share some quick hits after my weeks of interviewing candidates. i'm hiring for a senior role, and a lot of candidates are missing various marks here. consider it a refresher for anyone looking for work. 
for more context, i am interviewing for a remote company. as a hiring manager, i'm attempting to gauge not just skill fit, but the ability to build remote relationships. for the sake of this post, it boils down how you present yourself; the optics of it all.
1. get a good camera. if you want to work remote, make sure you have a good camera so people can see you.
2. be sure you have good lighting. dont sit in a dark room, dont get too lost in the shadows. light it up.
3. have a good mic. or at least check your sensitivity. if we can't hear you, its going to impact the session.
4. be prepared to share your work. i've already seen the high-level portfolio website, and if it isnt in depth, be prepared to dive deeper.
5. dont apply to jobs you arent qualified for. you wont get it, the market is competitive.
6. be clear with your ownership. ive encountered so many people speaking at a high level about the project, glossing over their ownership. i need to know what you did.
7. prepare to talk results (star). every case study, every story you share should have some sort of impact to your team, the org, the business, etc. the amount of people that waffle on this is a bummer.
8. have a test run with a friend to make sure your equipment works, camera is sharp, mic sounds good, etc. dont have a dry run in your interview!
best of luck out there!

expecting to get laid off
i work at an agency. my billable project ends late september. as of now, they have been cutting people not placed on billable projects. for context, i’m a senior multi-disciplinary designer that’s works at the intersection of design, content, and strategy. 
for those of you that have been in this position:
what do you wish you did to prepare before you left? 
what do you wish you had planned in advance of layoff?
for those with general career advice:
what are some steps i can take now to put myself in a better position to find my next position?
other advice? thanks. i know it’s been rough for a lot of us.

the biggest thing you need to get a job in ux or any field is tenacity.
after applying and getting rejections over 7 months, moving to a new country and continuing to apply and make adjustments to applications, i landed a job. 
despite this decent result which everyone usually hears, behind it was really a lot of anxiety and loss in self confidence in my abilities as a designer.
it was painful honestly, applying to over 400 jobs from different platforms and contacting my network and still getting little to no results.
you just think of pivoting all the time cause maybe you just aren’t good enough. but you are good enough.
i just had to be numb to the pain of rejection and just keep applying. suppress the insecurity that is eating away at you. 
what this post is meant to do is to tell anyone who is still fighting for a job in this field, to keep going and the only thing you need is a chance and you know you can do it. that you aren’t alone and that everyone is going through it too. just keep going…

design systems design challenge (whiteboard challenge)
hi there! i am currently interviewing with a very exciting company for a designer role on their design systems team. we will be doing a virutal whiteboarding session with three parts (group brainstorm; solo design time; presentation to team)
obviously in many ways its hard to totally prepare but would love your thoughts on sample ideas of what a  design challenge related to design systems might look like...
and then any other tips or tricks you may have :)

just got called back for the final interview round after being asked for the figma files of the take home assignment.
in my last post i asked if it was normal to be asked for the figma file and the presentation deck for the assignment. 
i got an email yesterday saying i made it to the final round and now have calls with the ceo and cto of the company later this week. 
the product owner who did ask me for the files did say they wanted to see how many explorations i did, check how i organized my files, how i managed to do the prototyping and if the dev handoffs were clear, so the naming and layers. 
thank you for all the advice you guys gave me on the matter and reducing my anxiety levels 🥲
what can i expect for the final rounds of the interview with the ceo and cto? my experience has been so different across the board. would love to hear you guy’s opinion.

why is it so hard to land a job these days?
frustrated and venting. been at it for 7 months and its driving me nuts! i keep redoing my portfolio and nothing works 😫😭

should i try to pivot into graphic design? not having much luck finding a job in ux
i’ve been the sole ux designer for 3 yrs on a team of 5 and have been applying for new jobs for over a year and no luck. i originally thought applying for a ux job at a bigger company would be a good idea, but now i’ve learned it’s way too competitive and the interview process is always 4 stages long. i want to learn more about branding/graphic design and marketing. would i have a better chance at finding a job? i have ux experience and web development experience so i figure that would help set me apart.

fellow job searcher check-in!
all i have is job hunting on the brain and i am exhausting my friends so just wanted to start a thread for my fellow job searchers to check in.
after applying for about a month i made it to a final round interview with a great opportunity to re-locate to the city of my dreams. it's taking them a few days to get back to me, so now i'm overthinking everything and super anxious. this is my first time through the interview funnel in a few years so in hindsight i know there was a lot of room for improvement. the thing that's eating at me is that i know without a doubt i'm qualified for the job, i just psyched myself out in the interview! the only thing that makes me feel better is continuing to reach out to recruiters and keeping things pushing.
my biggest takeaway from this experience is to take the time to be thoughtful with my responses and stay authentic. the second i started giving canned, reactionary answers bc i was so nervous, everyone in the room could tell. i was successful in the early stages because i was collected and deliberate but vulnerable.  
how are y'all doing?

any alt designers who work in corporate?
i’m a ux designer with 6 years of experience. i started out in corporate then transitioned to freelance and startups. 
when i was working in corporate, my boss used to encourage me not to dye my hair, get any more tattoos, and take my piercings out. he explained that it wasn’t a rule, and i would keep my job if i didn’t listen to him, but it was his professional suggestion for my career future. 
since i’ve gone feral as a designer, i’ve not heeded his advice. i think i’m still at a point that i can cover up my tattoos and hide my piercings in a corporate environment, but i’ve been considering getting more that may not be as hidden. 
i’m hesitating because i’d love to start working in corporate again and i’ve been applying to a number of places with a few interviews. some of the interviewers were even more alternative than me, but others seemed more conservatively dressed. 
i’m wondering if i should cut down on the alt aesthetic and aim to show up more “normal” until i’ve gotten to a better place in my career. am i overthinking this? does our industry have more leeway in this realm? 
would love to hear your thoughts!

scamalert! — anybody else with a similar experience?
https://www.reddit.com/gallery/1eaoc0y

what do you(design manager, senior designer, head of design, etc) usually want to know from a candidate?
i'm not sure exactly what to expect and what kind of questions to ask from both sides. i'm in a weird situation where i'm helping my team to hire a senior designer and also been looking for a new job(they're not replacing me the timing is a coincidence).
these are the questions i prepare are like the below.
tell me about:
- your validation process on the project you've worked on
- when you are persuading the stakeholders or other teams, how do you approach it?
- what kind of testing methods do you use?
- how do you make a design decision?
- any pushback experiences? how do you deal with them?
and more but what else should i ask, do you think? and what kind of answers should i really expect? how would you answer some of these? sometimes i'm not very familiar with some of the candidates' projects or industry but i think we can still ask universal questions to see how they solve a problem.

how long is reasonable to wait to schedule a portfolio presentation?
i got confirmation that i passed a hiring manager interview today and they want to schedule the portfolio presentation as a next step. i’m busy the remainder of this week with a few work projects and with wedding planning appointments over the weekend so i don’t have time to work on the presentation. is it unreasonable to ask for 2 weeks to prep the presentation / would it decrease my chances of passing into the next round from the perspective of a hm? the job market seems rough. should i just suck it up, grind things out, and schedule the presentation for next week?

workshop facilitation
hi fellow designers! i'm a mid-level product designer working in a pretty mature, large ux org and lately i've been facilitating more workshops with engineering and product. it's definitely been a bit of a learning exercise (mostly in getting people to understand the utility and purpose of the exercise but it got me thinking if i'm the only one who struggles with them? (and for reference i'm a pretty introverted guy so maybe that's it?)
but for the seniors, how do you go about facilitating workshops, what are all of your struggles with them and tips for getting better?
(apologies in advance for all the questions!)

unemployed and trying to achieve unknown
i lost my lost job (uxe) for about 7 months. no hope going back to the workspace.
working on a project on my own for quite some time. ux education is accessible for everyone. maybe similar to khan academy, brilliant. i am really concerned about the quality of content and pricing.
i'm confused, should i keep working on the ux platform or keep polishing my design portfolio?
has anyone experienced a similar situation?

feeling unmotivated and uninspired
i’ve been feeling lost lately. i'm a ux designer at an sme and have been with my current company for two years. recently, i've felt unmotivated and uninspired due to the way my boss treats me. he has always been this way, but everyone has their limit.
apart from my ux design duties, i'm also tasked with project management, despite signing the contract as a ux designer. additionally, i'm often required to take on tasks outside my job scope and help out at events since i work in the travel industry.
my boss is abusive, and his words can cut deep, causing me anxiety with each call. considering the tough job market, i'm struggling to cope with this situation, especially since i can only afford to consider remote jobs at the moment.
how would you cope if you were in my situation?

phone interview with microsoft   for product designer position. any tips?
i applied for a product designer position with microsoft not thinking i would get anything, but i actually got a phone interview with them. 
anyone have any tips on how to pass the phone interview?

rejected a take home task and got to the next round
sharing because i am genuinely quite surprised. applied for a product designer role at a fintech, i am not too attached to the role because i will be the only designer hire, and no other designers will be hired after me. they wanted me to do a really complex task about their current product and the design issues they are facing right now and asking me to do a redesign. (easily 20-30 hours of work) i hesitated a lot but decided to reject the task, i basically told them this is the kind of work that i’ll charge for, and offered an alternative that is discussing my previous relevant projects. 
they got back to be pretty quickly to say that they understand where i’m coming from, and ok with my proposed alternative. i am also aware that this might not be fair to other candidates, so i was ready to withdraw my application if they rejected this. 
so i’m gonna head to the next round now and will update what happens next soon!  
update: i went to the interview, met the cpo and presented my case studies alternative as discussed. however, at the end of the interview he did pull up the task again and asked if i mind just talking through it a bit more. (which i did not prepare for but i’m ok with) decent conversation, but some 🚩 about the maturity of the design culture. recruiter got back to me about next steps today and seems like i’m proceeding to the final round.

is it counterproductive to spend a lot of time in a company where you are the only designer?
the title says it all. i've been in a position for a year now where there are no other designers and there will be none in the future, so there are no prospects for managing or learning from other people. i feel that in a team there is more feedback and opportunities.
any advice?
thank you.

confidence as a designer - imposter syndrome?
i recently started as a jr designer at a mid-sized company and transitioned from early-stage start up experience. it's my first time working with pms, engs, etc. i'm mostly tasked with smaller work like comp analysis, testing, minor design explorations while the senior tackles bigger tasks.
i did two design hand offs and feedback was great. i've completed everything on time if not sooner. but what i wonder when i will receive larger responsibilities? that leads to my next question...
what tasks are typically delegated to juniors? has anyone felt a tough transition and a hit in confidence? i overlooked a design decision on one thing (it's now in qa after hand off) and it will now change.
i often hear about imposter syndrome a lot. how do i know if i have it? i sometimes lack confidence but not sure if this is a product of imposter syndrome or my lack of experience? how does someone overcome this?
i work with a senior designer who is mentoring me but i'm only tasked with small design tweaks. he takes on larger responsibilities and im not involved in jamming possible solutions. maybe because ive subtly shown im not ready yet? how do i show more promise? in some ways i feel like im overthinking but i also fear of being shit at a job so i've always worked hard to not be in that position. this is a career switch and i've excelled in my previous jobs so maybe this new environment is causing self doubt too..

follow up after interview?
hi all. i recently went through my 2nd and 3rd round of interviews on tuesday. i believe they went really went. i was confident leaving the both of them and they both offered to stay over time. one of the interviewers even stayed 30 min after the call and basically told me to expect an email from the recruiter this week, but it might be slow because the hiring manager and next person i'm supposed to be interviewing with are both on pto this week. do recruiters wait on the hiring manager to proceed with next steps? should i follow up or wait until next week? earlier in the process, the recruiter followed up fairly quickly. thanks in advance

has anyone taken a significant pay cut due to the state of the design economy?
here’s some context: i currently live in a large city in california. after 5 years working in digital product design in healthcare, i decided to leave my job with nothing else lined up. i had several reasons for leaving such as a toxic work environment, bad work-life balance, and after introspection, realizing i don’t enjoy designing for healthcare.
safe to say, i underestimated this job market and it’s been difficult to get interviews.
recently, i was given an offer to work for a company in finance technology. however, they’re offering me a salary that is $40k less than what i was previously making. it’s still a six-figure offer, but because i live in a metropolitan area in california, my cost of living is very high. their offer is also $20k less than the average salary for people of my experience (based on salary reporting websites).
despite this pay cut, this is an opportunity to design in a new industry, based on my interviews and the company reviews it seems there’s good work-life balance, it’s fully remote, they have a comprehensive benefits package, and the hiring manager and my pm counterparts seem like great people.
i’m wondering if anyone else has taken a significant pay cut due to the economy? and if so, what were your reasons? if you decided to decline an offer with a significant pay cut, what were your reasons?
edit: i ended up taking the offer! i appreciate everyone's insights and thoughts.

"tell me about a time..." interview questions
for some reason i always have a hard time answering these, and i often end up not citing an actual example but explaining how i would handle the situation. i have 25 yoe, so i should have examples but i draw a blank. so i'm trying to compile a list of these types of questions that come up, so that i can spend some time thinking and come up with examples ahead of time. here's my list so far: 
1. tell me about a time you had to solve a complex (or ambiguous) problem.
2. describe a time you had to make an important decision with limited information and time.
3. tell me about a time your initial approach didnt work. how did you pivot?
4. tell me about a time you had a conflict or disagreement with a coworker. how did you handle it?
5. tell me about a process improvement you implemented.
6. tell me about a time you had to champion something and win people over to your side.
7. tell me about a time you had a big influence on product strategy or vision.
would love to add to this list - what am i missing? how do you handle these when you can't think of an example?

application question: work samples
hello! i'm applying for a govt position that is asking for work samples. they're just simple file uploads, no description field to provide information. i've been in roles from jr. to sr. over the years with tons of work i'm proud of, but its difficult for to narrow it down to 2 concise samples, without context.
my question is, if asked to provide 2 work samples without context, **which would you pick**? bonus points to suggestions for **image size**, integrating **contextual data** or **explanations**, or work sample images you're comfortable sharing!

seeking advice on setting okrs and performance metrics for a senior product designer role
hi everyone, i'm reaching out to this community for some guidance and advice. i've recently joined a new company as a senior product designer (after 6 months of job hunting, yay!), and my manager has asked me to come up with okr's and performance metrics for my first semester.
i'm curious to know what okr’s and performance indicators other senior product designers have found effective in measuring their performance, especially in the initial stages of their roles. 
any examples, personal experiences, or resources you could share would be incredibly helpful. i'm eager to ensure that my initial objectives are both ambitious and realistic, and that they align well with both my role and the company's goals.
thanks in advance for your help!

do you constantly have to prove yourself at a faang job?
i've heard all the bad things about how working for a faang company is very romanticized. i'm just generally curious, once you finally get the job, do you have to constantly prove yourself in fear of being fired at any moment, or do they trust you for the most part (before and after the probationary period)?

feeling bored-out, any advice to re-energize my career
i've been working as a ux/product designer for the last 10 years and i'm at a point where i feel stagnant, uninspired, unmotivated, etc and i'm not quite sure what to do about it.
i've worked at decent companies my whole career, not faang, but household-ish names. all things considered the job is good - relatively mature ux org, good pay, good work-life balance. but to put it plainly, i just don't care about ux anymore. i wouldn't call it burnout, more like bored out. i think it comes down to being a bit jaded in the tech industry, and just seeing the same problems over and over for the last 10 years.
i realize i'm in a very fortunate position. i'm not looking to give this all up to become a carpenter or to travel the world. but i'm looking for some advice on getting re-motivated. has anyone had any luck getting back some excitement in their career? even just a bit? i'm not expecting to love my job and wake up excited every day, but i feel like i need to kick-start myself a bit, otherwise i think i'll have a hard time getting a job a few years down the road.

ats resume vs designed resume
hey all, i've been starting to dive back into the job market after getting tired of my current role. i've realized that my designed resume isn't making it past the ats. what approaches have you taken when applying to jobs? do you have an ats and a designed resume or do you only have one? any info helps!

recruiter's ask for 2-10 yoe for a role but when you apply for same with 10 yoe they say you are too senior for the role
this happens quit often.

any designers here that have actually learnt to code?
hi everyone, 
i am a 30yo senior ux designer, currently working in a large tech company that contracts agile delivery teams to large enterprises.
having come from a visual design background and making my way into ux over the course of a few years i understand the importance of upskilling. essentially i am in a permanent state of learning whether it be on project or through courses. 
lately, i have been wondering if learning front-end development to the point where you can actually contribute in a fast paced environment alongside full-stack engineers is even possible.  everyone says designers that can code are more valuable and that these skills will improve your ability to design solutions. i know a few devs that have turned ux, but not any designers that have turned dev. i have done some basic html and css courses in the past. 
also javascript is where a lose all focused never mind frameworks like react or angular. 
curious to know what other people’s experiences have been? any designers that have actually picked up some real coding skills that would like to share how they went about it.

im a junior that got an interview for a senior position
uppdate about the market.
in june i graduated and began my search for a good stable job, therefor im an junior ux designer.
because of the market is bad and there is not so much jobs i applied for an mid & senior position and i got chosen for an 1st interview. (finally).
i was getting so much "no" from other jobs because of my lack of experience, but now a company that looks for an experienced designer **(and they also write on their website "*****we are senior consultants*****"),** wants to meet me?
this makes me happy. but im confused and also nervous, the competition is real hard. i hope i get this job.
thanks to the companies that gives us a chance
edit: after others replies i learned this job is not a senior role. the company is looking for someone with 5 years experience, wich translated to a "mid role" and not senior.

ux portfolio - do slides look unprofessional?
i’m redesigning my portfolio now that i’m looking for a new job. i’m trying out the new wix studio and while they’ve made so many improvements compared to their old site editor, it takes me so long to put together a single portfolio project. it’s starting to feel not worth it, so i’m exploring other options. 
here’s my idea. what if i have my wix site with the typical pages - home, projects, about, contact. and on the projects page, i have my typical project cards but instead of those cards linking to a project page within my site, they link out to a figma slides deck for that project? each project would have its own unique slide deck linked from the project card on my site.
i’m wondering what recruiters and design managers will think of this format. does it seem too atypical or unprofessional at all?? i’m worried that especially in this horrible job market that something a bit different like this might turn off the recruiter, instead of having a more normal site with all the projects there. it’s just insane that making a portfolio project in wix could take me weeks whereas making it in figma might take me a day. 
any recruiters or hiring managers here? what would you all think of this format for a product/ux portfolio? 
edit: by “projects” i mean ux case studies.

ux and career advice
i have 14 years of experience in the industry. i started as a web/front-end designer, and for the last 9 years, i've worked as a ux/ui designer in various roles. for the past 4 years, i've been a senior product designer at a small design agency. however, i've felt burned out for the last year and a half, with no opportunities to grow. i've been stuck in projects where the most challenging aspect is modifying existing ui, focusing more on design cosmetics than solving core problems. this lack of challenging projects has led to stress, anxiety, and a sense of conformity. my soul has been slowly consumed, and i feel stagnant in my career. i'm not sure what to do next. thank you for taking the time to read this and for offering your advice.

anxious about not having so much work as i'm about to become a senior ux designer
our design team consist of 10 product designers. some products we handle our complex and some our just right. 
now, i'm currently in observation period to see if i deserve a promotion for a senior role.
and i'm having this anxiety where some of our junior and mids have more work and exposure than me.  i've also done some complex tasks before, but now the product i'm handling have fewer tasks, and i focus on mentoring a mid designer about research and have some initiatives to improve our research processes. 
and i'm worried that this might affect my last month observation and if i'm actually getting the promotion, i've been in this company for over 3 years. 
what do you do in this situation? what's your mindset about this?

career pivot to cs
anyone here who has pivoted from ux design to roles in customer success/experience? would love some advice and tips.

having trouble getting momentum on revamping my portfolio. can anyone recommend resources?
hello all! i've been unemployed for some time (layoff followed by long covid) and i'm rehashing all my application materials in preparation for a long job hunt. i've got my resume nicely updated and i'm working on star stories in preparation for interviews. however, i'm feeling pretty stuck with my portfolio. i know it's the most important part of my job hunt and therefore it's the most daunting. my career so far has straddled uxr and uxd at a b2b hardware company, so this is my first time making a website and dealing with ui in any capacity. i'm struggling with how to frame my work, how much detail to include, and of course the design of the site itself. given that i was in the r&d department, it's tricky to quantify impact since the work we did was so early in the pipeline. i can link multiple publications and patents for each project, but i can't throw out numbers/metrics or point to product on the market. 
my struggle is partly a skill issue (storytelling is lacking and my visual design is... not strong, lol) and partly the remaining dregs of what used to be debilitating imposter syndrome. i've got a first draft of the site and a general idea of the skills and personality traits i want to convey, but i don't know what to do next. is there some kind of 'uxd portfolio for dummies' resource out there? have other people gotten stuck here or am i a unique weirdo? and if so, how did you get un-stuck? help!

are these application questions red flags to you?
https://preview.redd.it/3mq2aqo5kpcd1.png?width=1110&format=png&auto=webp&s=c3c9ec84d2e2cc774808c34acc2a3a5f9c10d089
these questions are gonna help weed out people who answer them "wrong", and i guess that's good for their recruiters. but being a good designer means you can adapt. i've worked in games, mobile networks, and security with no prior experience in any of those industries. none of these things matter, imo. and that's why it seems like this place would suck to work at based on these strict "requirements."

senior product designer interview
hi all. i'm currently in an interview process and have my 3rd round this upcoming week. it will be my first interview for a senior role. the interview will be with another sr. product designer on the project.
the recruiter has told me that no presentation is needed, and that they will focus on asking me questions based on:
- my design philosophy
- my portfolio
i'm studying for it now. but wondering how the process works for presenting a project straight from my portfolio site? would it look better if i took the initiative and created a presentation? the interview is only 30 minutes...
i've never not done a slide deck, but i've always been asked for that..
thanks for any help in advance!

final round meta advice?
if anyone has gone through final loop at meta would appreciate some advice. my final round is in two weeks. thanks

as an only designer, what to say during the weekly 1-1 with a ceo?
i’m the only senior product designer in a startup company. in my past experience, i used to have a design lead to report to. if i needed support or wanted to complain about my workload, my manager would guide me.
now in the new company, i don’t have anyone to report to. i have a weekly 1-1 meeting directly with the ceo/founder. he is nice and makes sense; he values design and research work. he hired me to save his company’s product ux, which i appreciated.
in the first few weeks during the 1-1 with him, i shared my learning and how things can be improved within the product team, and shared the product design vision plan with him. now i’m not sure what else i can share with him apart from my day-to-day work progress. he doesn’t know anything about the product design career growth, so all i can share is the work progress.
sometimes i feel i want to complain something to him but i guess he would want me to figure things out by myself.
anyone have similar experience? what do you usually say during the 1-1 with the ceo/founder? i don’t know what they want to hear or expect.

fortunately, i did get the job (the third and last part of my trilogy on this subreddit)
hello everyone, first and foremost, i'm the guy who made the following posts: "[unfortunately, i didn't get the job](https://www.reddit.com/r/uxdesign/comments/18gwssk/unfortunately_i_didnt_get_the_job/)" and "[for most seniors here, what are your best tips for whiteboard interviews?](https://www.reddit.com/r/uxdesign/comments/1c9fcos/for_most_seniors_here_what_are_your_best_tips_for/)"
it took me about a year and a half to find a new job. i will start at the new place in two weeks. i can say that i had a pretty rough experience over the past 1.5 years. luckily, i wasn't affected by the massive layoffs in our industry, but my safety net was running out, so i pretty much jumped ship at the last second. overall, after 1.5 years and over 200 applications, i got about seven interviews and two offers.
i feel very frustrated with the current state of our field. for reference, after my interviews, i found out that some of my seniors, who have over ten years of experience over me, had applied for the same jobs. i was literally competing with the people who taught me ux in the first place, which is crazy. i cannot stay calm, not to mention the absurd number of people diluting our ux industry. it feels like our numbers doubled during the pandemic, and many come from bootcamps. i remember some interactions with colleagues who didn't even know the basics, like using a grid system in figma for their design or using various resources and plugins to ease their work. don't even get me started on gathering data or using auto-layout in figma; that thing is like alien technology to them, which is very, very sad. why do i have to compete with people like this? i know i sound very irritating and maybe straight-up ignorant, but you have to empathize with my absurd journey.
a few pieces of advice i can give are to stay away from "easy apply" on linkedin; it is not worth it. most interactions i had were with companies that made me register and apply using long forms on their websites, which pretty much vets out tons of newbies or people who don't have the patience. more than ever, ui skills are secondary. most people look for pure ux or/and ba skills. can you hold your own presenting stuff in front of stakeholders? furthermore, for online portfolios, don't just show pretty screens. people really start looking for the nitty-gritty details like how you came to this conclusion and how you collected the data (more than before, at least).
companies have become very selective with candidates and stingy with salaries. [gone are the days like this](https://x.com/i/status/1584731550658068480). personally, i will make an effort to either start my own thing in the near future or shift to something more stable. i don't want to spook anyone, but i find that this field fluctuates way too much.

senior designer not getting interviews
i have 5+ years of experience. i know most senior roles are around the 8 year mark, but i have diverse background working for startups, small businesses, and enterprises in my current role as a consultant that make me really dangerous.
i feel like i'm doing all the right things. i have a great portfolio that i've iterated on, i'm matching my resume to the job description, i'm including cover letters, and still i'm getting rejections. not even a screener. i'm applying to roughly 2 jobs every day, spending this time making sure everything i submit with the application aligns with what they're looking for. 
i'm just really frustrated and disheartened. i had a call with a junior designer today asking me for advice on how to land interviews and i felt like a fraud telling them to do all the things that have so far yielded nothing for myself.
i'm burned out at my current job and i'm desperate for something new. i'm just so broken and i have no idea what it is that i'm doing wrong or what it is about my skills that make me inadequate for these roles i put so much time into applying.

horror story: marketing kept interfering
in my previous workplace the head of brand and marketing for a significant portion of my tenure controlled the design outcomes. any effort with pushback was futile as he was the founding member and would say that the order have came from one of the founder.
pms give me a deadline, i design the feature, the marketing guy tells that the pm is not allowed to see the outcome unless it approved by him. and i kept missing deadline due to him to the point that the org started planning to layoff me. i was shocked to find about it that how they can even consider it when i am going and beyond and working in the weekends too.
the problem was that the guy couldn't design. he used to tell often that he had a ux auditor kind of role previously with design thinking kind of org. but the guy literally never had or never can produce anything himself. once he called a meeting along a content writer because he wanted the product copy to be written according to the tone he have set. my job was to give context of the few dozen screens so the content writer and him can do the ux copy exercise. what happened is that he opened chatgpt and kept on prompting about the copy. 70 minutes had passed and and we were over 3 screens only and finally had it. told them to get the context and do the chatgpt exercise for as long as they want. i started giving them the context but seeing that they are not asking clarifying questions gave me a good idea that they are totally ignoring and doesn't want to work in this way. the next day he setup a meeting with a founder and accused me that my files are disorganized. i told them that i haven't met a single designer in my life who can claim that their in-progress work is organized. the founder gave example of restaurant kitchens that measure every ingredient and all, and said that he have zero knowledge if its true if your work is disorganised or not but i am telling from what i am hearing about. i was stunned, shocked and speechless at that time. marketing guy knew that i fought to get the paid version of figma so i can get rid of the mess created by contract designers (all features in a single page), and the same person who knew i am making a design system on weekends and after office hours and have to spend so much time on clearing out the mess of previous designer which will never ever be counted, still he made such accusation. it turned out that he was asked from another founder about the ux copy exercise and since they didn't do it, he put all the blame on me that since the file is 'chaotic' and undocumented that's why they couldn't do it. the real reason was that he was not interested in taking the context and do it by himself.
i was one designer against 3 pms and a cpo, and once i tracked meeting times and found that its typical of me to go 20+ hour a week on meetings only. and each pm thought i am available for their work only, and they were frustrated that why i couldn't just handoff the design to them. the marketing guy just couldn't ever take a stance on anything, asked to explain him the product context and rationale behind every single design decision. its extra step for me. and the sad thing is that step only produced bad outcome.
seeing that he is listened in the org and there is no way around it. i asked him to become the head of design since he is so much interested in designed. he backed off immediately to this idea saying that there is already so much in his plate. the real reason i can think of is that he would have to take accountability of the missed timelines whose impact was only i absorbing.
eventually i made the cpo to get the marketing completely removed from every single step and process and my life got easier, and the product actually started picking up shape. i got promoted to a lead designer(even though i was the solo designer so it was meaningless). the marketing guy after sometime brought his designer friend and told everyone that he is as par to me or better than me. it turned out the new designer was a design thinking guru performative ux person who was only good at conducting entertaining workshops for non-designers.
my life again got hell for few weeks but eventually everyone realised that the new designer is a sham. and i got valued even more. but i left the org as i was being paid the same as the new one and was doing 98% of the work while he was allowed 3 weeks vacation and i was denied for even 3 days as so much dependencies were on me.
in my current org i am paid twice as much, and working along a design team. the only people interfere in my work are the designers. and there interference only enhances my work. i am so traumatized by the past org that i am trembling as i type. and the last i heard was that the ux performative artist is put on probation and about to be fired.

how to recreate undocumented process?
i have tons of projects and i feel that i am not able to write decent case studies because i mostly do fast paced design  where everything is straight forward, straight forward tasks and straight forward solutions. most of the time the rest of the ux process is skipped.
the challenge now i as to find a new job that will allow me to use my skills but it's too challenging to land a job because i am concern my process is too plain 😔
anyone who had the same challenge and how are you able to fix it?

the great design freakout pt.36484 ‘job stealing’
anyone else started to notice previous colleagues without any design experience or attachment adding ux or design in their titles on linkedin?
i’ve seen a delivery exec now titled svp of delivery and uxd (literally never had any design involvement) also saw a management consultant add design in their title. 
what the hell is going on? none of these people have had any formal training. is that now the view of design that it’s so easy anyone can add it to their title?

i think my anxiety will refuse me from ever getting a better ux job
f, 27, canada. i have horrible social anxiety and i can’t even talk normally without forgetting everything and stuttering when it comes to talking to people, let alone job interviews. i seem to do ok when it’s a 1:1 and it’s very casual. i actually got my first ux job after one short zoom call. but the pay is low and i’m not learning anything more, being the only designer. but the bigger companies and better paying jobs have 3+ interviews and are an hour long or more and i have never humiliated myself more when it comes to those because my anxiety takes over and it doesn’t matter how much i’ve prepared, i always end up embarrassing myself because i can’t even talk properly. i’m about ready to give up, because i know i’ll never be chosen over someone who is extroverted and loves to talk about themselves and their work. i come off not confident and the interviewers can sense that. i’m so lost and feel like a failure. i’ve got a strong resume & portfolio, but can’t get past the interviews. maybe i’ll have to stay working at startups forever.

how to adjust contract rate for nyc area for senior-mid level?
i checked the sub's salary survey beforehand but could not find enough postings from the nyc metro area to be of any help, so apologies in advance if this post might be out of place.
i'm looking to relocate to nyc and i'm wondering how i should adjust my rate for contract positions. i only have ft experience but i am open to taking contract given market conditions, and it is my biggest dream to move this year.
i have about 5 yoe and am looking for $130 - 150,000 for mid-level positions, with a recent senior promotion i'm not sure what salary i could reasonably expect for that level. i'm looking for rates/salary on nyc-specific roles with my similar stats if possible and how you might have gotten to that number. tia for your input!
eta: i am working with a recruiter and i told her my rate is $60-80 for a mid-level contract. is this too low?

what to do after being laid off?
as ux designers, we obviously want to look at continuing ux as our next job. 
but with the current job market, i imagine that's not realistic for many of us. 
what can we do? is there something peripheral to ux design that'd be smart to pivot to? do we just abandon the field entirely? i was recently laid off and have had to ponder these questions.
people with years more of experience and greater skill are struggling, so i feel like i need to think realistically about this. what conclusions have you guys drawn?

scoping new freelance project?
hey folks - so i have a meeting with the lead dev & the ceo today to talk about the design work that needs to be done after receiving their first check funding (2 million allocated to design). the problem is that, the ceo has a lot of ideas, which is great because it seems like they need a ton of help, but we also do not have a pm/there are no processes set in place. meetings usually don't have a conclusion. here's some ideas i want to propose:
1. since it's a healthcare app that needs to be redesigned, i suggested we approach in a piecemeal approach. we can breakdown parts of the re-design through continuous improvement, and task it out/define core requirements from a feature-level.
2. put my pm hat and together a prd
3. after listing out all of the priorities and timeline, lock them in on a monthly retainer rate (at 10-20 hours ish a week) (obviously i'd rather lock them in at 20 hrs/week since i've been unemployed for while)
how would you guys approach billing/scoping these guys as a freelancer?
right now as far as an immediate need, he wants the homescreen to be improved, and then redesigning appointments, medications, and radiology. i know he wants the website to be redone too. the biggest impact projects would probably be: 1) improving drop off rate with the website 2) increase customer sign ups for the product.
appreciate the input!

indian recruiters spamming my linkedin
i've been searching for a job for over 8 months. i have worked as a contract ux designer for over 6 years, doing remote ux work before it became common. all my previous jobs came from my personal network and word of mouth gained from 20 years in the industry. however, everything came to a halt in november.
things are getting desperate, so i turned to linkedin to self-promote and expand my job-seeking network. now, i'm receiving daily messages from recruiters with indian (south asian) names at obscure us-based recruiting companies, asking to submit me to their clients at hourly rates 50% less than what i was making in 2018. needless to say, i'm frustrated, annoyed, and suspicious about the motives and legitimacy of these job offers.
what are people saying about this issue? how is everyone else dealing with it?

i got laid off yesterday so wanted to rant :(
hi all, i'm a senior product designer with 10+ years of experience working with various industries. i work for a very small company in the usa as an individual contributor and my team was lead by a pm who has no bg in ux.
since day 1, she and our cto has been taking design decisions. i used to be handed off with half cooked scopes and i had to come up with design solutions. since there were no users, there was no scope of research and so every decision was either based on the senior mgmts biases or assumptions.
and i have helped them extensively to give the product some direction, but i was never acknowledged for any of it. it always came out as “oh we were already thinking about this” or “we came up with an idea” that was discussed in 1on1 session that never acknowledged any of my involvement.
also, i insisted of making the website mobile first and at least have a homepage. but until this point they think this is a waste of time.
the last conversation i had with my manager was about a home page concept i designed during my free time to help them scope out the actual one since our users were landing at random pages and according to them it didn’t matter.
and then on monday, they said i’m being laid off because my ux is not good. when they never truly believed in anything i suggested.
one more suggestion was to implement analytics that will show more than heat maps but that was rejected too.
and the funny thing is that this company calls themselves to be “feedback forward” company, whereas while terminating my contract they gave a vague reply instead of a good feedback that might have helped understand the right areas where i lacked.
i feel so shattered not because i got laid off but my work was demeaned. :(
here’s [my portfolio](https://meenakshibose.wordpress.com/), i would appreciate your constructive feedback.

what's the biggest career mistake you've made as a ux designer?
just like the title states, what's the biggest mistake i've made in my career as a ux designer? 
reflecting on my journey, one mistake stands out: neglecting the importance of user feedback in the early stages of a project.
early in my career, i was overly focused on creating visually stunning designs and meeting client expectations. i believed that if the design looked great, it would automatically lead to a successful user experience. this mindset led me to prioritize aesthetics over usability, often sidelining user research and feedback.
one particular project comes to mind. i was tasked with redesigning a mobile app for a major client. the stakeholders had strong opinions about the design direction, and i found myself accommodating their preferences without questioning them. i conducted minimal user research and skipped usability testing to meet tight deadlines. the result? a visually appealing app that users found confusing and difficult to navigate.
this experience taught me a valuable lesson: always advocate for the user. no matter how beautiful a design is, if it doesn't meet the needs and expectations of the users, it will fail. incorporating user feedback early and often in the design process is crucial for creating truly effective and successful products.
**have you ever made a similar mistake or learned a tough lesson in your career? feel free to share your experiences!**

lolwut
https://i.redd.it/uq4omlemhlbd1.jpeg

working as a solo product designer at a startup: is this design process efficient?
hi everyone, i'm a product designer at a small saas startup. i typically collaborate with the product manager to understand customer problems based on customer chat conversations. from there, i jump straight into wireframing and final mockups, relying on assumptions rather than user research or interviews. while this seems fast, i'm wondering if it's the most effective approach for startups.
here's my question: how can i improve the design process for better problem-solving, especially with limited resources? additionally, how can i showcase this type of work in my portfolio to demonstrate a well-rounded design process?
thanks in advance for your insights!

moving back to the usa after 5 years, has the job market dramatically changed?
i've been looking for jobs for a few weeks now, i'm a senior, lead product designer and strategist. i'm great in innovation spaces, having been working in ai for 8 years, and have been doing hardcore consulting for 10+ years. name an industry or system, and i've probably designed it. been working in the uk the last 5 years to escape an abusive relationship, and now thinking about returning. the thing is... the market is all ux developers, directors, in the usa etc. 3 years ago i couldn't even look at my inbox on linked in for all the senior positions, but it seems those are filled.
i'm thinking i could be a director (i'm the head of design and research practice london for a major global consultancy) but i haven't directly done that... any advice from seniors? how's the jump to upper management? i was thinking i could do another consultancy but i'm not sure if that's where i want to let my dreams die. any advice is appreciated, this is not a request for jobs, but genuinely trying to understand where to go from here.
update: my dudes, i will be applying to a series of ai startups and looking for product management roles, but also hedging my bets by getting that mba (i always think i could be c suite so lets fucking see cowboys) there are no design roles in any big 4 consultancies in all of the usa. nor at any of the other standards i usually peruse. but europe is blowing up with need for product designers and seniors, the pay just suckssssss. making a website on framer and putting together a side hustle for product coaching because lol, let's face it we are all product managers in the end. i keep working in spaces where i have to train product directors on how to do their jobs anyway, it might as well make me cash.

retiring from ux
considering retiring from ux after 15 years in the field. i love design but am bored with the 95% rest of the work.  if anyone here has any advice about retiring from ux, what drove you to that point, what you did from there, can you share?

tell me life gets better after startups, before i burn out.
i’ve been a product designer for about a decade after a career pivot, mostly at a series of small startups. i actually really enjoy this type of work and consider myself a decent ux generalist. or, i did.
for years now, i’ve been the only ux person keeping a team of engineers supplied with 3-4 projects at a time. this means i’m answering questions about 3-4 projects in development, working on an upcoming 3-4 for teams to roll on to, and having open discussions about *dozens* of possible features with product and engineering managers. i’ve been producing at least one completed feature design (or re-design) every week, for years.
burnout is inevitable in this situation, right? i am struggling, but feeling guilty about it. there are so many problems to solve (30 on the roadmap right now!) that i sometimes just feel paralyzed. i don’t have the autonomy to decide what gets put in the queue, either. if 2 or 3 users request something, management green-lights building it.
there’s more -- like, all ux feedback from customers and the ceo alike gets posted in the company chat for everyone to see. this is not supposed to be a reflection on my performance, and i am not supposed to feel anything while reading it. if i ever admit to feeling overwhelmed, someone logics me to death about how feedback is data and data is a gift, and projects should simply be put in an order and executed one at a time. "are you blocking your calendar for focused work?"
someone please tell me bigger companies aren’t like this. i know i need to start looking for my own mental health, but i admit i’m afraid of the unknown. my impulse is to aim to switch to a small or medium-sized design team at a regular-old public company. what would you do?

state of design recruitment in my country..
so i have been trying to get into either of the last mile, fintech and telco companies a few times over the last 8 years in my country. progressing to newer higher roles thankfully going back to the same companies, moving from senior designer head of design and now assistant director role (taking on a more managerial non execution role) for ux. some i applied and some they reached out.   
the same hr managers circulate be because its a small ecosystem.
and yet despite the industry making progress, the hr managers still give you the same design challenge and one page exercise i did 6-7 times now. word for works, the same case, every single time. the same ui exercise for a director role. seriously, why? - pakistan

should i demote myself?
i got promoted last summer with no pay raise. just more responsibilities.
this year has been a lot of ups and downs and tons of politics in the workplace as i gotten to senior level. also my company has been tightening up on their budget across all departments so i’m not even sure i’d be able to get a pay raise if i ask.
in any case, im not asking for a raise because i don’t want the added responsibility on top of it and dealing with politics and upper managements.
im the type of person that just wants to get their work done and disconnect from it after hours. i value work life balance and don’t care too much for the titles.
my boss likes me because i’m good at what i do but it’s been an uphill battle to navigate being a senior as i don’t have guidance and just winging it as i go. as result, someone in the company made a comment that they don’t even know what i do since i do pretty much everything. (for context, i do ux/ui/graphic design)
should i demote myself? what are my options other than quitting?

help with interview.
hey, all awesome creatives,
i hope you all are doing great. 
i need quick help and guidance with an upcoming interview. i have been invited to interview with a car company who are looking for a 5+ yrs (of course) product designer to join in improving the in-car experience.   
they have mentioned all the generic design things (design systems, motion, visual, etc) as a req for the job, which i have, topping it up with good systemic thinking in the projects.   
can you all please help me with resources that i should look at? also, you can suggest m look at some videos or projects that might help me?   
my only issue is, that i do not have a 5+ years of experience but i do have industrial design experience of about 7yrs. 
hope to hear from you all. 
happy week!

the recruiters don't even open my cv/portfolio.
hey everyone,  
so, i’m a ux designer living in europe with about 2.5 years of experience. unfortunately, i got laid off a few months back from my first position, which started as a 3-month internship and moved up to a mid-level position during my time there.  
i actually studied business at university, but then i got into ux after finishing up a local bootcamp. currently, i’m having a real hard time finding a new job.  
through the portal where i track my applications, i've noticed that only about 20% of the jobs i've applied for have been viewed by recruiters. and from those that look my application, maybe 50-60% actually checked out my portfolio. my interview rate is like 5% of whole applications.  
i’ve made my cv using teal and used all the right keywords, but for some reason, the recruiters are overlooking my profile:  
i've made two theories to explain this:  
maybe it’s because i don’t have a formal design education. while pursuing a master's degree could potentially address this, it's very costly, and as an unemployed individual with familial responsibilities (i'm married and have a child to care for) i would like to avoid that for while if it´s possible. also, going back to university dedicating time and resources to obtain another bachelor's degree from the beginning is simply not feasible.  
maybe it’s my lack of experience. seems like every job listing wants 4+ years, and using linkedin premium i can see that almost half the applicants have seniority and master’s degrees. maybe the recruiters are only opening the applicants that have labeled "seniority level" on their profiles (really lazy job to evaluate applicants using this method, but must be a thing in this economy).  
i’ve even tried reaching out to recruiters on linkedin, but nobody never answers. i’ve had some good feedback on my portfolio from senior designers, so i know it’s not that.  
any suggestions on how to get noticed? i’m all ears.  
thanks a lot!

anyone mind sharing their amazon interview lp questions?
studying for interview coming up in a few weeks.

paid design interview assignment hasn’t been paid. what should i do?
went through a lengthy interview process with a start-up, had two design assignments, the first unpaid, the second i was supposed to be paid per hour and was told to not go over 40 hours, i was given about a week to do it. and took time off of work and worked late into the nights to work on it. i didn’t have access to their components or design system so a lot of my time was taken up inspecting their assets on their live site so i could make a design accurate to their stylings. i provided 2 design options, had a review with them and then had to finalize one option for the following day - another lengthy ask. after this they wanted to do an in-person interview and paid for my flight to do another design assignment/interview, was at a location for 7 hours doing this, the same day i had to get up at 3am for my flight to the interview location because that was the only flight option that worked with their criteria, needless to say i was very exhausted. the final review of that assignment they were unhappy with a button placement and asked me to find a new position for it. again not knowing their patterns or having access to them i blanked and couldn’t suggest a good option - for this reason it seemed like they decided to not hire me.
anyways they told me to send over an invoice for that paid design assignment along with adding any food expenses from the trip. 
i billed 36hrs and about $80 of food (excluded any drinks or anything of that nature). 
around 2 weeks ago i send them the invoice with no response, followed up on monday, still no response. 
not sure what to do from here? i’m assuming maybe they are upset i took that much time? but i stayed under the hours they wanted me to.

advice on how to navigate an hr meeting on seniority change
hey,
the situation is i have been working at a tech company for the last two years as a senior designer and got changed to a lead with no comp adjustment. the company is somewhat of a mess, but i like my co-workers and my new boss. i asked him to clarify the change and he said workday was accurate and i am a lead designer. he is also giving me very large, difficult, and high visibility projects to work on. 
my manager wrote a very detailed and accurate summarization of the scenario and hr scheduled a meeting with me on friday. 
i'm looking for advice on how to prepare. my base salary is 180k + 20% bonus which i thought was great for a senior. what is reasonable for a lead? the company claims to pay inline with faang. thanks!

what are the best ux recruiting agencies?
anybody have an idea about who are the best ux recruiting agencies that work with the best, most in-demand companies?
(especially for senior ic / mid-level ic / design management jobs)

hiring manager failed me because my unreleased project lacked concrete impact data.
i recently had a job interview where i presented my portfolio, ensuring compliance with all ndas. the hiring manager passed on my application because my project, which is still under development and not yet launched, couldn't demonstrate its real-world impact on end users. while i explained the research and testing results, but they were looking for more concrete data.
this was my only fintech project directly relevant to the company's focus area.
anyone have similar situation? how can i effectively showcase the potential impact of an unreleased project?

did attending conferences help you get you next gig?
hey all, i’m looking for a ux job and i’m thinking about attending a conference this weekend because i know how important networking is in securing a new role. i’m also a recent transplant so this seems like a good way to meet people in my field who also live in the area.
the problem is that it costs $60 to attend, and i don’t want to waste my time and money if it’s not going to get me ahead at all professionally. 
i attended a free conference last month that was fine, but had a lot of current students/recent grads who were trying to network just like me, so if the audience is going to be the same then i’d say it’s not worth the money and time. 
but maybe because it costs money, there will be a different crowd? does anyone have any experiences going to tech conferences and did they give you meaningful results in your job search?

my cv says i've been doing ux/ui for 3 years but i have nothing to show for
hi there! i've been a *blank* designer for 7 years - blank because i did everything, from graphic design & branding to print stuff to assisting junior designers&copywriters to social media stuff to web design (both figma prototypes and wordpress) to app screens. i've worked in design agencies, advertising agencies and in house for a startup. i always found it hard to describe my job in a more specific word than just designer - and i thought that was not a bad thing (being adaptable and able to do all things visual) but it turns out to be working in my disadvantage.
i've been trying to land a ux/ui job for years, but i just can't seem to land the right one. companies that do ux/ui by the book (user research, testing their product, focus groups, etc etc) don't seem to want me bc i haven't proven myself in ux/ui particularly (as i tend to do a bit of everything and also they are discouraged by the advertising background for some reason, quote unquote "it's a different field from ours" which is legit i guess but still). the last two jobs i had, technically were ux/ui roles, at least that's what it says on the payslip.
however, my problem is, in practice, i had very few ux/ui tasks. at most, i had to design some new screens and adapt some old ones, pitch some new features and show how they would look like in the app, but it was not "serious" - as in we never had resources to do it right. i made use with what i had, applied heuristics and user centered design principles and some vague personas/pain points where needed and mostly used common sense and it was enough for what was needed. but at the end of these years, i have nothing to put in my portfolio, i can't showcase these examples as they are not "kosher" and any serious job interviewer will see through the bs and think i don't know how to do this.
this makes me stuck in a vicious circle where the only companies that will give me a chance are the same ones that don't take ux/ui seriously or don't have resources/time/interest to do that. 
i would like some advice from people working in the field. sorry i rambled so much, i am just a bit frustrated by this situation and i feel lost. how can i make the most of what i did at my last jobs and use that in my portfolio? is there anyone there working in ux/ui and satisfied? i am getting so discouraged because so far in practice it's been nothing like i knew it to be in theory, everyone i met at these jobs is just guiding themselves by the principle of "well i put this button there because i think it looks good" which is not at all what ux/ui is about. 
thank you!

has anyone made a career out of being a founding product designer?
i’m in my second role as a founding product designer (5yoe in total). in my former role, the company was quite successful which led to a lot of outreach from recruiters looking for their first designer. because of the turbulent job market, i decided to stick with it and thought it would be a good idea to carve out this niche for myself. 
now i’m starting to have doubts. i’m worried that i’ve boxed myself in and will struggle to move to a larger company one day.
i’ll add that for both roles i’ve been well paid (both startups had good funding), but obviously not in comparison to larger orgs. i left my first role after feeling like i wasn’t learning anymore.
so, has anyone made a career out of this? what do/don’t you like about it? any regrets? 
to hiring managers at medium to large-sized companies, would you steer clear of someone who applied with this sort of background?

hiring process: 4 design tasks, 3 interviews and 4 lateral thinking & behavioral assessments
senior product designer here. i need a reality check. please share your thoughts on this.
&#x200b;
after freelancing for almost 8 years ( from big corporations to digital agencies in london), decided to apply for perm roles too since the market we all know is a bit dry, to say the least. 
sent more than a couple of dozen applications and today got my first catch!  
however! this is the hiring process the company sent to me:
*"* 
* *the first batch of tests made of two lateral-thinking tasks, two design tasks, and a behavioral assessment with some open-ended questions.*
* *a second batch of tests made of two short behavioral surveys, two lateral-thinking tasks and two design tasks.*
* *an interview with hr where we get to know you better.*
* *a problem-solving interview with another designer.*
* *a final interview with a hiring manager and one or two people from the design or product team*.*"*
i'm absolutely shocked, to be honest. this company is not faang, they're simply a scaled-up start-up that released 2 well-known apps. is this the new normal for perm roles? what is the point of having detailed portfolios?   
please share your hiring process experience!

background check in germany
is it common practice to make background check in hiring process in germany?  
i will fail any background check with my cv.  
i failed last 8 years in my career decisions. in ukraine i worked without registration with russian/belarussian/ukrainian companies. last one in ukraine i tried to make in right way, but made it in wrong way)  
the only tracked work experience was german startup after war started.  
yes, i have all these experience and skills.  
your thoughts and advices?

answer this interview question.
how will you redesign an app for female nurses? 
i am still confused what will be the right way designing only for female nurses.

what’s your experience working with career transitioners and juniors who graduated from a bootcamp?
i want to emphasize that my question is not aimed at criticizing career transitioners or bootcampers. in fact, i encourage anyone to pursue career changes for professional growth. these reflections are based on my experiences and if you're an early career transitioner yourself, i hope you see this as a constructive learning opportunity rather than criticism.
having held several ux roles and currently in a role as a senior ux designer for a year, i frequently reflect on my past experiences to understand why i left each job and identify growth areas. one frustration i encountered in a previous role were significant knowledge gaps within the design team.
in my previous company, there were 5 junior-mid designers (4 were career transitioners in their first ux role, alongside 2 senior designers and 2 design managers). i noticed challenges among the seniors mentoring these juniors due to lack of coachability, knowledge gaps, limited critical thinking and lack of ambition to progress further after landing their first ux job. this lack of development meant we had huge knowledge gaps within the design team and a weak design culture where we had 0 design discussions. whenever a design topic was raised, it often left the senior designers feeling frustrated and unsupported. this resulted in high turnover amongst the senior designers as the design bar was really low. this hindered the ability to provide high quality design solutions as no best practices were followed. 
in my current role, i've observed that the juniors i work with have high ambition, curiosity and a strong desire to advance their skills. they have a solid design foundation from traditional education and started their design journey out of passion. my current design team is strong as i’m working with a lot more experienced designers and subject matter experts. juniors are strategically placed in projects alongside senior designers to ensure a well-rounded and balanced teams.
this has led me to wonder whether there's a difference in quality between those who did a bootcamps versus those with more traditional design education.
looking forward to hearing all of your experiences :)

help: upcoming interview @ meta
hello, i have my final round coming up this upcoming monday. i'm so nervous. 
the upcoming interview consists of presentation, problem solving (whiteboarding), background and app critique.
i am 110% confident that i will not nail it.  
i had a mock presentation with a recruiter yesterday. it was alright. she gave me a few small feedbacks but said it was good overall. so i was confident. i then did another mock presentation with my friend who's a pm at meta. she tore me apart and gave me tons of feedback and things i needed to change in my presentation. well, that's not good.
&#x200b;
i'm most nervous about the whiteboarding and app critique part. if anyone here has gone through this meta interview process or can help me anytime today or tomorrow i'd be forever grateful.

seeking advice: advancing career in ux/ui design - education vs. self-learning and skill development strategies
as someone interested in advancing my career in ux/ui design, i'm seeking advice on how to elevate my design skills to the next level. i already have a solid understanding of the basics of design tools and principles, and i'm eager to further deepen my expertise.
i'm particularly curious about whether pursuing formal education in art school is necessary for career advancement, or if self-learning through resources and online courses is sufficient. additionally, what strategies do you recommend for achieving advanced design skills through self-learning?

anyone in los angeles?
how are you finding the market? so many great opportunities i wish i could take in ny or sf…

shocked by company’s layoff process - is this common?
feeling devastated! i was laid off from work today. they terminated me without cause, and apparently, they can do that if they pay in lieu of notice. i'm just upset with the way they delivered the news; i wasn't even allowed to pack my own stuff. the director of my team, who i thought had a fun personality, was emotionless—like a robot. i expected him to show some compassion when delivering news like this. i didn’t even get to save my work; he told me to email my design manager about it. i wasn't allowed to talk to anyone and was immediately escorted out of the building. this is a 100-employee company—small enough that everyone knows each other well. i worked there for two years, and this is how they treat you when they no longer need you.
is this normal practice when people get laid off? i haven’t been laid off before, so this type of behavior is baffling to me, as if i were some criminal. i wasn’t even allowed to say goodbye to my coworkers

level bias?
curious if anyone you have experienced this?
for some context, i’m on a small design team (1 sr and 2 mid, including myself). got a new boss and all we hear is “we have more experience and higher level than you”, “you should respect your senior’s feedback”, etc. there’s a lot more praising for the senior vs lifting everyone up. 
it seeming like the senior is also put on a different standard than the rest of us, which is infuriating because we haven’t seen any work or effort from this senior. there’s a lot more i could say but this will be a very long post if i do. i will say though that i don’t have a bad working relationship with this senior and i do take their feedback seriously. 
seeing that the market is tough at the moment, finding a new opportunity might be a long game. 
has anyone experienced this? how did you navigate this environment? tia!

design exam, to do or not?
i was interviewed this week, and the manager asked questions about my design process and situational questions. i honestly struggled with some questions, and i think i failed the interview because i couldn’t articulate well.
the manager then assigned a design exam to be finished within one week. the exam involves critiquing and proposing solutions for their existing product using our own process (for the manager to better understand the standard and expectation i have on a good ux). initially, i was willing to take the exam, but i became hesitant because i don’t think i could give my 100% effort and time, as i have a planned overseas trip in the upcoming days. although i am confident in my hard skills, i feel conflicted because i may not be able to produce the quality of work i usually do given the limited time.
i am thinking of skipping this and look for other opportunities, at the same time thinking if this is worth the hustle…
what would you guys do if you were in my shoes?

after interview decision
i recently had a few interviews where i received rejection emails within a couple of hours after the interview ended.
it's frustrating because the interviewers took the time to explain the company culture and answer all my questions (standard questions like company culture and team size, nothing inappropriate).
if they had already made a decision, i wonder why they didn't shorten the interview or give me a chance to address any potential concerns.
it feels like a waste of everyone's time, and it gives candidates the impression they have a chance at moving forward when they might not.
anyone know the reason behind it?

not gonna lie, its a terrible field, folks.
trying to get a job in ux is bad. really bad. 
to put this all into perspective: two years ago, with about 5 year’s experience and also a horrible portfolio, i was getting 3-6 interviews a week. several job offers. 
fast forward to now: i have a professional portfolio and several years experience in one of the world’s most well known corporation (think on the level of fox, or several other fortune 100 companies). i also had a professional resume created. 
after over 200 applications, i get maybe 2 interview requests. 
rip to new people or even associate level ux designers when i’m having such trouble as someone with senior and principle level experience at fortune 100’s. i don’t even know what to make of this field anymore. 
do people foresee it improving? i wouldn’t even recommend this field to an enemy at this point hah

underutilized and feeling overlooked at a transforming company
tl;dr: *i'm a designer at a company where design has historically been undervalued. despite recent leadership changes recognizing design's importance, i still feel sidelined and excluded from key projects and discussions. my suggestions for improvement often go unnoticed due to our small team and competing priorities, leading to feelings of chronic passivity and insecurity impacting my work and personal life.*
i’m a designer at a company that’s currently undergoing significant changes, including new leadership and strategic shifts, to improve our results.
the company has in the past consistently undervalued design, with previous management showing little to no regard for the design function or our attempts to refine our processes and product. this often left me feeling marginalized and ignored by the product leadership, including my toxic boss, stifling my initiative and efforts. this attitude also spread to some team members, leading them to devalue my input and decisions.
thankfully, our company has recently undergone a leadership transformation, with a new ceo and other executives, including a new cpo joining us after some organizational changes. the cpo recognizes design as a vital component of the product development process which is already making a positive impact.
despite these changes, i still feel sidelined and undervalued. there are major design-focused projects where they've brought in a consultant for one of them, within my expertise. i'm not only excluded from these projects but also from discussions where my in-depth knowledge of the product could be highly beneficial. these projects are also kept under wraps signaling a clear disinterest in external contributions or involvement. because of this, i've been hesitant to intervene.
this approach feels particularly odd given our company's size. we are only two designers, each with a different specialization and assigned to separate teams. i'm more experienced in ui and interaction design. the other designer is deeply involved in one of these projects, yet we have minimal interaction or opportunities for collaboration. this person has significantly more influence than i do. in contrast, my influence is minimal.
my attempts to contribute often feel meaningless as many ideas remain unimplemented. i am also exploring solutions to enhance our design practices, such as implementing analytics to gather user insights, which would help me easily identify areas for improvement. but due to the small size of our team and competing priorities, my suggestions frequently go unnoticed and unimplemented, which diminishes my motivation. i feel constrained, struggling to increase my influence and growth within the company.
i’m trying so hard to understand what i might be doing wrong or how i can better navigate as a designer. over time, i've become almost chronically passive, affecting both my work and personal life. i tend to give up easily or sometimes make no effort at all. when i find myself with spare time, i struggle to identify tasks or new things to learn, which only heightens my sense of insecurity.
i'm reaching out for advice and insights on how to navigate. any suggestions on how i can assert myself more effectively as a designer within my company or strategies for overcoming feelings of passivity and insecurity would be greatly appreciated. thanks for taking the time to read my post.

need suggestion from all designers here.
i am currently ux consultant for one of the big 5 banks (as contractor) in canada where i am full time for one of the canadian consultancy. i am giving my career story here. i need to give you a full picture so you guys can give solution in that context.
after my engineering from india(2013 passout), i got placed in one of the top mnc  for a developer role, but i dropped that offer and choose to find a field which i can relate more, with more research i found a role titled as ui designer ( junior) which looked like a role which i can relate as i was good at designs and familiar with how a software product work. that was basic knowledge of an engineering student. i gone for the interview without knowing a single design tool. i just installed an illustrator day before interview and played around it. but i didn't understand how it works to be honest with a single day. the company give a design test which i done somehow but very amateurish way, but the talk with manager after the test, manager told me to draw and sketch few items by hand i done that. then he told me i can join from next week as he told i got the skill only thing is to mold it. that's how i started my career as ui designer. which i worked on photoshop to create designs. but the way the work was i have to design a single screens 10-15 versions to present to manager. he was so good in that way it really tested my skills and i improved a lot in ui way. but i dont know anything about ux at that point.  mostly taking inspiration from other existing products and presenting to stakeholder. there is no research part associated to it.i job hopped to next company in 2015. first company was mostly responsive and web dashboards and new company was mostly android and ios native apps. but still mostly ui jobs no ux part to it.
then in 2016 i got the opportunity for higher studies to come to canada and i opted mobile app design and development, mostly development of app and there is few design parts as well. as i have this much experience and passion towards design i was hoping to land in ui jobs in canada. but the role change at that point. it was ui/ux designer. i applied for many jobs as part time. got interview but lost due to ux part and lack of english communication. but one startup company came to my college and presented there app and details about their company. i know they are coming a week before and i gone through there app and created few designs which improved there customer experience and i got placed an an intern as part time in that company. i was so happy at that point as i got a door to canadian experience, but the story was horrifying as the tool they used was illustrator coz the boss only know that tool , as she was mostly doing the designs there. i told to boss its better to switch to sketch. that time was sketch very popular. but boss was forcing me to use illustrator . boss make fun of my english always like in a meeting, she will correct me in front of other that you shouldn't say those words like in a rude way. and i got really embarrassed but i stayed there as i needed canadian experience. when days gone she become more rude to me design wise and personally. but i got to work with 2 big automobile clients as the app was focused on automobiles. i personally didn't have any experience in ux part like the research part. i only started with competitive analysis , inspiration on net and straight to design.  i know i was not right, but  boss need designs they dont need any research part to it. as i mentioned my english was not great but not too bad, to be honest, my way of convincing was bad. so then course almost going to end and i have to do coop i done my coop in the same company and thought of continuing there to get pr if i stayed there for a year i will satisfy for pr. but because of the pressure from boss. i quitted the role right after i got the workpermit for 3 years.
i was jobless for 8 months. but i got in another company after that there also there is no ux process.  i never experinced any. but always from title was ui/ux designer. i worked with clients no one bothered about ux part. i can say any kind of research i done was competitive anaylisis. then after that company i joined in a big candaian consulting where i workd as ux designer for a big 5 bank in canada. there also i was single designer in team mostly pixel pushing. now i have 5+ years of experience in  canada as ui/ux designer but basically doing ui part. i have experience of senior role.  but i need some suggestions from you guys.  i am currently looking for other roles,  shall i look for a role which is senior or stay as mid level role and look for a place which have a standard ux process and study from that?
the boss part, i was venting out, as i still have that in my mind as a trauma.

number of case studies for sr. & leads
i have about 6 years in the field and have not updated my portfolio in about 4.5 years. so i am essentially starting from scratch. i am currently a sr who is starting to entertain recruiters again in the hope of getting a pay raise or title jump to lead. how many case studies would y’all see as the minimum?
i currently have 2 substantial in-depth ones. one launching a full new product, and one redesigning a major interface within an existing product.  i have plenty smaller projects i can pull together case studies from, just wanted some opinions on how many one would expect to see.

where are people getting jobs? linkedin? glassdoor? indeed?
i am truly curious. i have heard many negative things about how linkedin has turned into facebook (who at linkedin approved "catch up"?) but then there are the posts saying how they were just hired.

ux or ui?
hi,
i've been given the option to become a lot more specialised as a ux designer. i have the chance to join a new team that's formed around the design system of the whole organisation i work for. it's a really large organisation, has a large ux team, the design system team is small and really new, the system touches every area of the businesses online products, it is also very hands on with the developers and feeds into their component library. it's really busy and i feel more more of a key cog to the entire business there.
i want to know does the path of a ui designer/ui engineer (as i will be doing some front-end work as well, upskilling) sound like a good career path or do people think there is far more progression and long-term security in ux design as a whole, with the testing and research angle? wondering if anyone has made this kind of decision before to go entirely into ui and development and if it paid off?
thanks for the help!

40 min presentation
i was asked to make a 40 min presentation on a 6 hour design assignment given to me by the company i applied to. i normally present 10 to 15 min presentation for my ux case studies so this 40 min thing is new for me. how would i even make such a long presentation based on 6 hours of assignment. any idea how to deal with this?

transitioning from ux research to physical or service design
hello everyone!
i am currently a ux researcher (i'm classified as mid-level) with three years of experience working in finance and a masters in hcde plus some internship experience in ux research (web design stuff) and vr (onboarding).
i enjoy the research process but i want to jump into positions where i can actively participate in ideation and design. however, i just don't have any passion for web or mobile design! i'd love to be able to work with physical products or in service design but i'm not sure how to work towards that from my current position. i'm even having difficulties finding jobs in that area - is that usual? does anyone know any companies or job titles i should be looking at.
i'm currently doing what i can to brush up on my general design skills;  
- working in figma weekly  
- pursuing the advanced design thinking course with ideo  
- picking up some books in design
would love any other tips! books to read, notable designers to observe, or cool jobs that you've seen.
tl;dr - ux researcher interested in moving to design with more physical systems (like analog controls or just a physical product\] or service design

working from abroad as a us-based designer
does anyone here work from another country after starting their career in the us? i might have to move abroad in the future, and curious to see how i can continue working as a product designer in another country, while ideally retaining a us compensation.   
the three scenarios that i can think of that would enable this are:
1. working for a small remote-friendly startup
2. working for a very large company and being transferred to their division in another country
3. having your own clients or being a part of a small agency
if there's anyone here in a situation like this i'd love to hear from you! how did you make it happen and what have the pros and cons been for you?

how long should i wait to contact interviewer/hr in this case?
i had a second interview (over zoom) for a uxd position here in my city and i think it went well. i got an invite to set up an in-person final interview for sometime this week and submitted my availability. 
i completed the design challenge given to me in the interview on friday and sent it in that evening. i tried not to stress all weekend about it, knowing everyone wouldn’t be working over the weekend. 
now it’s tuesday and i haven’t heard one thing back. no confirmation that they received my design, no appointment set for the in-person interview. they work in office w-f and are remote m-t. 
should i reach out to them? confirm they received my design? should i just wait and see if they get back to me later this week?

i am a product designer looking to transition into frontend development. but recently i got an offer from a faang company which would double my tc. confused if i should accept the offer?
what i am trying to ask is that does big tech companies have a possibility of transitioning from designer to frontend developer roles? should i look for ux engineer roles and then transition to frontend? i have never worked in a large company before so have no idea how it works.
i know this is a personal choice but currently if i try to get a job in front end i doubt i'll get even one fourth of faang salary. i really like frontend work and has been freelancing as a developer for some years now.

this recruiter hit me up today
https://i.redd.it/5vcpn07vr4wc1.jpeg

feeling stuck at my design job
i've been working as a designer at this company for two years. initially, i was hired as a ux designer, then as a ux/ui designer, but now i feel like i'm only doing ui. we conduct frequent a/b testing, and there's a ux researcher who handles some of the ideation—a task i believe should fall to a ux/ui designer. however, at this point, i feel like i am a 'ui factory.' the projects no longer excite me, many of my ideas get dismissed. we mostly do minor features testing, making the work feel less impactful. they have hired a senior designer, which makes me feel threatened and demotivated. i'm also concerned that changing jobs and potentially being laid off within a few months would be devastating. what do you suggest? should i still look for a new position that aligns more with my growth?

i love designing. and i hate my design job.
actually, i have hated almost all design work since around 2018. i think 2018-2019 was at least here where i live, the time when digital design changed to such as it is now. 
does this resonate with anybody else? what to do? does there even exist anymore design jobs like they used to be?

hiring in india, bangalore?
hey guys, i am looking into ux leadership roles in india preferably in bangalore. i have been working in the u.s. for over 13 years and an overall experience of about 19+ years. i am looking to move back to india. 
one of my key areas of interest and love to most is creating, managing designs systems/teams. 
i am not too aware of the job situations in india since i have been out for quiet sometime. any guidance would be great. 
i'm looking forward for some direction, thank you in advance! 🙏

risks of quitting to freelance…in this economy
i’m a staff-level content designer at a middling u.s. corporation—known in its industry but not highly prestigious (i.e. not likely to give me a leg up with hiring managers). previously i did website content strategy at a small agency. i’ve been thinking for a looooong time about trying to go independent, for two reasons:
1) i’ve never been terribly interested in management and feel i’m hitting a wall as an ic—can i really do this for 25-30 more years? at the same time, i’m starting to feel comparatively old (~40, the oldest ic in my role at my company).
2) i have some ambitious (though not remunerative) side projects i want to spend more time on.
after ~three years in my current role, i have the itch to move on—and a healthy savings account—so now seems like the time to try. the worry that stops me is less that i’ll fail at freelancing than that i won’t be able to find another decent job if i do.
what are the chances that, after a year or two of part-time freelancing, i’d be able to find a remote, reasonably paid content design or ux content strategy job as an ic in my early 40s? (my current role is remote and reasonably paid, and there aren’t a ton of opportunities in my part of the u.s.) some days it seems possible, some days impossible; i know i’ve only given partial details, and no one knows the future, but i could *really* use some outside perspective on how risky just quitting might be…

for most seniors here, what are your best tips for whiteboard interviews?
i think i've only had one interview process where one of the steps was a whiteboard challenge, and i have to say the experience wasn't super great; you could say i was quite unprepared. so, for the most seasoned users here, what is your experience with whiteboard challenges, and what have you learned from it?

i'm curious, what's your favourite type of workplace?
i'm a ux designer and i've worked for 4 years in a ux agency and 1 year at a startup. both experiences come with a fast paced environment and stress but i love the small team, the ability to jump into other roles and freedom to make decisions fast. 
now i'm considering the next step in my career and i'm wondering if i should aim for larger companies next. one thing i definitely know is that i do not want to work agency side again 😃
so what's your favourite size/type of company to work for? what are the pros and cons?
thanks!

ux audit for job assessment interview
i'm currently interviewing with an agency for a ux strategist role. the next step is an assessment, wherein i am to conduct a ux audit on a website that this agency has already been working on (so i'm not doing free work, thankfully).
we all know majority of an audit hinges on gathering data, stakeholder interviews, and understanding the business objectives and user objectives. the trouble i am having is that i'm not sure where to start, since i am not privy to that information for the purposes of this assessment. the instructions from the recruiter are as follows:
&gt;audit the ux/ui and any other performance indicators that you’d to focus on for {website} then offer improvement ideas that will help drive their business objectives.
&gt;there are obviously some things that you don’t know since you haven’t talked with them like we have, but you can make assumptions based on prior experience with similar clients
&gt;the way you’d like to present your findings and suggestions in this meeting is entirely in your creative realm. whatever you find is the most effective way to communicate.
&gt;the presentation should be 40 minutes long, the remaining 20 minutes will just be for dialogue and time for the two of you to meet and understand what working together would be like.
aside from getting a little bit of free data using tools like similarweb, i am at a loss as to where to start. any and all suggestions would be most helpful!

personal case studies in a portfolio a good or bad thing?
does it make me look more junior, or does it add some variety to my portfolio that only has work from one company?
**some background**
i am a mid/senior level designer, with 10 years of design experience but only 2 directly in product design. i am hoping/trying to convince a future employer that my experience as an architectural designer is relevant to product (in my view there is a ton of 1-1 overlap of skills) i think this is born out in my work experience, i landed a job and very quickly was given more and more responsibility as it was clear that my skillset warranted. but now i only have work from that job to put in my portfolio, which feels a little one dimensional. thoughts on whether i should include personal work?
my portfolio is password protected, so i'm not sharing it here due to nda, it contains work with worlds the largest search engine company...would potentially share privately if that is helpful.

job search q: at what point can i ask about hours?
i’m a working parent and have a special needs kid. i want to find a new remote role (i’m still employed btw). right now i’m able to end my day at 3pm ct / 4pm et. i’m wondering what do people advise? do i hold off until an offer is received to start negotiating hours?

rejected from job what to do next?
i have been job searching for months but couldn’t find a job that i want. finally i got approached by a recruiter and i was interviewing at a mnc a week ago. i only had 2 days to prepare for the portfolio presentation. the whole thing seems oddly urgent and i didn’t really know why. i was told that it will be an hour to present 2-3 case studies, but when i got the invite it was only 30 minutes. i thought it was a mistake and asked her, she told me that no it will be an hour it was just a mistake in the invite, but when i got to the meeting the hiring manager confirmed that it will be for half an hour. the recruiter also told me that there will be 1 person interviewing me but turned out to be 4. i think all in all, i haven’t prepared for the interview well enough knowing what i know now. i did my best presenting the case studies with the amount of time i had, and they asked questions about accessibility and dealing with stakeholders and i did my best to answer. 
today i got a message from the recruiter that they want someone with more experience, but this reason seems to be a generic rejection instead of why i really got rejected.
i don’t think i have performed well, maybe it was the case studies i was presenting, maybe it was the way i answered the questions, i would really like to know how i can improve. i tried connecting with the interviewers after the interview but they are not accepting the invitations except for one. i really want this job since there are not that many companies in the area that i live in, it’s been really difficult to get a job. even if i don’t have the job i would at least want to maintain a good relationship with the interviewers. at this point i don’t really know what i should do next.

accepted job offer, but wish i didn't
i'm in a conundrum, albeit a good one. about two weeks ago, i accepted a job offer that i was reluctant to accept. after being laid off in january, i took the offer as it was the only one i received after months of interviewing and needed income. i'm currently set to start in early may, and the company is flying me to a company offsite to welcome me to the team. they've already spent thousands on this and are happy for me to join. however, it's on a team and company in which i only have a little long-term belief. here's the problem: i've just received an offer from a company and team i'm highly interested in. the money would likely be the same or more, but i'd prefer to take this new offer in terms of engagement. however, i feel awful about potentially doing that. i gave my commitment to the company, and i should honor that. on the other hand, i shouldn't be loyal because if push came to shove, the company would fire/lay me off in a second if they needed to.
has anyone else faced a similar situation, and if so, how did you approach this issue?

how long does the career in product design last?
many have told that career in tech is only 20 years till one is 40-45. what are tge thoughts of the seniors, directors here?

designers that are non-euro how did you land a job in europe drop the companies that have visa sponsorship
as the title suggests 
if you are non-european, don’t hold any nationalities that are privileged…
and you got a job abroad can you name the company that hired you with a visa sponsorship

advice for xd director recently laid off? i think have a somewhat atypical skill set and i’m trying to plot my next moves.
first off, wanted to commend so many people here for such great topics and conversations in this sub. so many good insights from across the industry.
i recently got laid off due to an agency acquisition along with a dozen other people. i’d been there nine years, worked my way up from freelance designer to director of xd, albeit i was basically a ux team of one for the past four years. for reference, i’m in my 40’s and been doing ux work since 2007, along with some project management. i’ve been designing and making websites since the late 90’s.
in my early days there i worked as an embedded designer with a large national insurance corp, doing interface design, customer web apps, asp.net agent platforms, and quote-centric web tools. as we evolved we focused mostly on websites, content hubs, content production, etc. i really like the latter; it’s a bit more stimulating intellectually as someone with an advertising degree and love of all things web. 
i’ve been going over the skill set i’m armed with, as well as the skills i worry about not having. for starters, the things i haven’t done much of:
- large scale research. most web projects were either with clients who had a lot of research to offer, along with personas and audience info, or, were intuitive enough for us to strategize for with little effort. research has never been my focus; it’s been much focus on design.
- people management. i’ve never had direct reports, which i think is expected by the time you’re at a director level. i have mentored and guided junior designers on our creative teams, and helped lead multidisciplinary teams.
key skills / experience i do have in my skill set:
- web background. i’ve been making sites since the days of geocities and before css or responsive design was a thing. i’m highly familiar and knowledgeable of front and back end design, cms development and management, skilled at all things wordpress, slowly becoming an expert with oxygen builder in wp, and much more. i can code decently, learning more about javascript for fun lately.
- design tools. switched to figma last year when adobe xd was destined for the scrap heap. helped creative team designers learn xd and adopt a collaborative design process that adobe or sketch didn’t offer until then. i’ve also used axure extensively but it’s been several years.
- working with creative and development. i’ve always prided myself on being a lynchpin between these two disciplines. i’m great at working with both, guiding either based on the needs or constraints of the other. 
- embracing ambiguity. there’s nothing i love more than to start a project that’s confusing, open ended, and that i know nothing about. i’ve been recognized by colleagues for this and how i’m always “that guy” who digs in and figures out confusing stuff.
- pitch work. love working with leadership on new business opportunities, quick concepting and prototyping to win new work. helped us win quite a few projects, always satisfying.
- typical ux deliverables. low - high fidelity wires, site maps, user flows, as well as functional annotations and project requirements.
lastly, a lot of what i did was very content-centric, helping our teams design better content, making it more visually driven, exploring scrollytelling where it made sense, trying to make blog content and evergreen content more memorable and effective. that’s where the web designer in me feels very comfortable and has a lot of fun. 
so i sit here typing this as i’m about to go apply for a few jobs today and continue working on my portfolio, wondering… what should i be pursuing? 
i worry that my experience at director level where i was might not translate to director level elsewhere. i’d been trying to focus more on the xd strategy side of things at the advice of my boss, realizing that might move me away a bit from the hands on nature of designing things from beginning to end. at the same time, i do feel like i’ve had a pretty interesting career so far and i’ve got a lot of versatility and broad experience that can be valuable in the right place and role. 
i do indeed think about freelancing and consulting on my own, particularly focused on content design and strategy. i like the idea of helping teams and businesses transform the stories they tell, shunning text-based content that few people read and making content more impactful. 
decisions, decisions… i need to get back to working soon but glad i have some time to think through it.
any thoughts or insights you have, particularly from others at this level, i would be most appreciative. thanks in advance.

re: ux interviews - how much is too much?
how long till someone treats ux hiring as a design problem and makes the process less laborious for candidates, and does us all a favour?
someone tell me why i am interviewing for a mid-level designer at a large tech mnc and there are six rounds spread over months?
on god how is this reasonable. why are y'all even hiring if you can wait months & months before you make a decision.

anyone transition from ux for something more technical?
the short of it is i'm burnt out/bored out of ux and need to do something different. i've been working as a ux designer for 10 years now and it's not fulfilling to me anymore. i got into tech because i like making things, studied cs, and have been working as a ux designer since graduating from college. tbh, i don't think a lot of the work ux designers do ends up being valuable. whether that is because of the work ux does or because of organizations is up for debate, but that's where i'm at. i'm looking to go to something more technical because i want to build things again.  
what are you stories of transitioning from ux to something more technical? how did you do it, and what tips do you have?

senior level forever?
i am curious: is anyone a in the field very happy being a senior-level designer and have no desire to move up the ladder? 
i’ve been a manager before (though not in ux) and while i learned a lot, it’s not something i enjoy. the bureaucracy, meeting, politics… not my thing. instead i enjoy being in the weeds and solving complex problems, mentoring, and essentially what i do as a senior level designer. i don’t see this changing for quite some time.

is recruiters ghosting you a sign that you’re not really a good designer?
i really find reddit more credible than a lot of the mentors i’m connecting on linkedin and through networking. 
i make it up to the point where they run background checks and then get ghosted by recruiters. 
i just had a call with a famous mentor on adplist and he went on to say that recruiters normally ghost you because they think you’re not a good fit for the role. and maybe if you haven’t been able to crack an interview so far, you should reconsider your career.
i mean, it’s great that they want to give feedback but this seems very shitty. 
so to the ux community on here, is that true?
should i reconsider starting from scratch? 
update: i heard from one of the recruiters this morning to prepare for a meeting with the vp on monday. would love your advice on this bit. 
now this makes me question the entire recruiting process in india at least. 
with this company i started my interviews on the 4th of march and we’re closer to may now. 
is this normal? 😅

i’m just a pixel monkey
i apologise in advance for my rant post. i hope the situation is better for you.
i’ve realized that more often than not, a design job is just about pixel moving. in my 12 years working with different companies, only 1 offered any support to speak to users. even there the feedback was completely disregarded, and was just a means to push a useless feature.
most companies didn’t even have design awareness. a couple needed hi-fi designs to even brainstorm. my team got the requirements and we directly jumped into hi-fi. they iterate on it for weeks  on end based on continuous feedback. i cannot tell you what a pain it is when some stupid stakeholder raises a stink after you designed over a 100 screens in excruciating detail, prompting you to make a change across all of those screens. 
nobody other than peers would tell a programmer how to do their job, because others don’t understand code. but just because people can see designs, they have all sorts of feedback. i’ve come to hate the phrase “try something innovative”. what the hell is that? and what about all the damn innovation that has already gone into these designs? just doesn’t matter. 
i’ve repeatedly read on this sub on similar posts - “you’re working with a bad company”. sadly i don’t know where the good ones even are! i would’ve enjoyed working on maybe 2% of the projects i’ve touched. i love design and the process of solutioning. but the reality has been very different. i’m just fed up of being a pixel monkey.

feeling like a beginner even though i have '4 years of experience' on the paper
i switched from industrial design to user experience in mid 2020. i have worked on enterprise web applications and due to timelines and scenarios related to availability of users, i tried my best to follow the design process. i now realize i was a pixel pusher for 40% of the time and there are 2-3 projects i worked from the scratch where i followed the end to end design process (user research, journey mapping, ia, wireframing, prototyping and usability testing). i'm compiling my work as i want to make  a switch and i'm having a reality check on the quality and quantity of my work. the projects did solve user issues and have received a positive feedback from them verbally.   
i'm going thorough other's work online and i feel i have no chance at all. i feel like i just have 2-3 years of experience and with cut throat competition out there, i am feeling hopeless. i have testimonials shared by my manager and i am appreciated for my work and my commitment but they have also mentioned that i can try to be more creative, risk taking, questioning the status quo etc.   
i am not proud of my work, honestly when i see work of other folks.   
i am 30 years old and i sometimes feel the work of 22-24 year old folks has so much depth, better visuals, better story telling and impactful work.  
i have reworked on my projects probably 3 times by improving the ui but there is not much i can do due to project context and scope. personal projects are not worthy for someone who says have 4 years of experience.   
i'm not sure how to navigate this situation.

positive job search experience
some commenters wanted more details from my reply to [this post](https://www.reddit.com/r/uxdesign/s/up5laj5ejj) regarding how i saw improvements across iterations of my job applications.
i have been working in batches of 20-25 applications since mid january, so here’s how things changed from batch to batch:
for batch 1, i updated and sent the resume i had used to obtain my latest ux job. this was my baseline. it worked a few years ago. would it work now? no. nearly all got rejected within a few days. to me, this meant that i was getting immediately declined, so i contacted a recruiter to review my resume. the recruiter said that i needed to start tailoring my resume to the job posting. i also contacted a designer to review my portfolio—the one that worked years ago. the content was good but needed a visual update.
for batch 2, i visually updated my portfolio and tailored my resume so that every bullet point corresponded to keywords and lines in the job postings. my portfolio saw a few visits for the first time. rejections came, but they came a lot slower, so maybe my applications got a little more attention.
for batch 3, i started to think that my keyword usage was overkill after reading and listening to posts from amy miller, a recruiter i follow on linkedin. she said to focus less on keywords and more on context, because a lot of these “keywords” are haphazardly determined by the ats and therefore not reliable. focus more on what makes your experience valuable and interesting rather than stress and guess on which words are the keywords. with that said, you can still reasonably guess that the very first qualification and responsibility mentioned on the job posting are the most important items the hiring team is looking for. i applied these tips to my resume, got more portfolio visits, got some slow rejections, but finally got a few invitations to meet a recruiter.
currently i am on batch 4, which used a similar approach to batch 3, except i tried a new layout for my resume. so far, i am still seeing consistent portfolio visits but no new invitations to interview.
a few more details about my overall job search:
- i only apply to positions if i have the most relevant experience. if i read “_____ experience preferred” or “familiarity with _____” and i can’t offer that, then i won’t bother competing with those who can.
- i try to apply within 1-2 days of when the job was posted. i don’t apply to the jobs that get reposted on linkedin or are older than 30 days unless someone from the company explicitly says that they’re still looking.
- i highly recommend following amy miller on linkedin and youtube to get an inside look at how recruiters do their job.
- last week someone posted [their approach](https://www.reddit.com/r/uxdesign/s/ulve4omjvs), and it’s similar to mine.

external recruiters placing urgent faang roles
i've been approached by multiple recruiters recently for long-term contact roles within faang companies. the compensation is hourly and just below attractive. health insurance is covered partially by the recruitment company and paid time off is a little slim if it's even offered.
does anyone have any insight around these opportunities? am i right to be skeptical?

is being underworked a good reason to leave a job?
i’ve a mid-level designer and have been at my current job for over 3 years. since i’ve been there, my biggest complaint is that i don’t have enough work to do. i’ve done everything i can to try and combat the problem. i’ve been vocal about it and i’ve created projects myself that i saw a need for (i am just finishing up a huge two-year project that’s making a big impact on the business that i’m really proud of). somehow even with little to do, the projects i’ve made have had high-visibility and i’ve really earned the respect of my team and i’ll be getting promoted to a senior level in a few months. i also want to add that i really like my coworkers. 
however, i am so bored and feel like i’m not growing. i just got a new manager who said he’ll bring me in on some more projects but i feel like i’m just sitting around waiting. 
on the other hand, i made it to the final round interview for another job and i’m completely on the fence if i’d take it or not. it’s another mid-level job but the design team is smaller (9 people vs 25 where i’m at). i really like the hiring manager and she seems like she’d help with career growth. the pay is a lot more, but i know if i got an offer i could leverage it for a raise at my current job (please no input on this — i’ve talked to coworkers who have done this and it goes over well at my company). 
anyway, in my career i’ve only changed jobs because i hated my current job. this situation is tougher for me and i’m not sure if i should wait for my promotion and only change jobs if a dream job comes along.

how do you prepare for culture fit or screening interviews?
i never had one so i don't know what am i expected to talk about.

ux designer interview process - canada
hi all,
i'm moving to vancouver this july from ireland on a two year working visa and am interested in what the interview process looks like in canada and specifically vancouver. i've 5 years experience and would be looking for a mid to senior role.
\- how many rounds of interviews were in the process
\- what type of interviews were involved
\- did you have to do a design challenge + what was it 
\- how long until you heard a reply
\- how long did the entire recruitment process take

whats the job market looking like for a mid level ux designer in the uk?
im looking for my next role as a ui/ux designer in the uk. how is the market looking for a mid level with just under 3 years of experience in the uk? is it picking up? slowing down? any new hiring trends? let me know!

rejecting faang offer
hello everyone, i find myself in an interesting situation and would appreciate some advice. 
currently, i am working at a company and i am really enjoying it. i feel like i am gaining a lot of valuable experience here. however, i have recently been offered a job at a faang company. 
at first, i was excited and thought that it would be a great opportunity, but now i am hesitant about leaving a job that i enjoy for a company that may only be prestigious. 
do any of you have any wise words of advice that you could share with me?

who has had a positive job search experience recently?
i'd like to hear from folks who have had a positive job search experience recently. we see a ton of doom and gloom, but i'm curious how much of it is selection bias and we just aren't hearing from folks who have had a positive experience.
i have 12 years of experience, i'm currently the lead at a small startup, and as much as i like my team and the product, we're struggling finding our user base. i'm preparing myself to enter the market again soon and wondering where the nuance is on this topic.

moving from senior to lead
i’m been working for 14 years as a ux designer, now i’m closer to product design and project management too. what will be your recommendation to step up from senior to lead? 
how did you manage this transition and trap to avoid it?  i really love the craft and i’m scared to lose it.

what pay raise should i expect/ask for in jump to senior?
hi all! i'm about to (within the week) receive a promotion from mid-level to senior. we have several products so my responsibility would be to manage ux for one of them, handle most major projects (from research to design) and oversee a junior designers work. 
i've been doing the job successfully for about 4 months. i have about 7 years experience with 3 in ux.
i make just under $100k in the us. i know our senior pay range for starting out is between 100-120 (base salary). what should i negotiate to? what should be expected? google says between 5%-15% for a protmotion and it seems average is about $125, but i want to be prepared when i get the offer. 
thanks so much!

the dreaded portfolio update
i don't know what it is about updating my portfolio, but it has always felt like the worst possible thing to me. 
the irony is that one of my strongest skills is story telling to the point where i've run workshops for large teams on how to be a good storyteller (i also have a degree in writing, so that part isn't particularly challenging for me).
at this point, i haven't updated my portfolio in years. the market was so good for a while that i was hounded by companies for interviews, and got hired based on showing active work in figma (as i was never out looking for work). 
the projects displayed on my portfolio site feature mostly visual/ui, whereas nowadays i specialize in product strategy. to give you an idea of how much -- sometimes i don't even design an actual screen for months on end. 
my work centers heuristics, lots of interesting ideation, research methodology, etc. so it should be easy, right?
wrong. i want to go curl up under a rock when i think about updating my portfolio. 
i am fine in my current job, but again, i'm just fine. i know the market right now is a nightmare even for people with over a decade of strong experience under their belts, so i have anxiety about the fact that if i needed to find a job, my portfolio isn't competitive or reflective of how i've spent the last 5-6 years. 
i also haven't gotten a raise in almost 3 years due to a raise freeze. i'm up for a promotion in june and worried that the raise will be sorely disappointing given the $$$$ my work has brought the company in the last couple years. and in that case, i want to know that i can be like "see ya!"
anyway, curious about how you all tackle yours. any advanced tips and encouragement for getting in the mood and mindset? 
for getting inspired?
for revisiting old work and managing to pull out the top-level story of it without spiraling into an overly complex case study? (i feel like i'm good at this when i have to do it at work, but abhor doing it for myself)
i'm finally on a super chill, slow project so i have some spare time. seeking some encouragement!

how to deal with cultural differences in interviews
i'm from the south of europe and i've worked in big companies with people from different cultures without any issues. however, in interviews, it can be tricky. i'm not even talking about "huge" differences, but mostly "behaviours" or "stereotypes" that some people assume from a certain culture.
in my case, coming from the south, i'm accustomed to being outspoken, less direct, energetic and easygoing - at least that was what my colleagues told me in peer reviews lol.
but recently, i had an interview with a german company, and immediately upon entering the meeting, i sensed they didn't like me because i was too expressive.
for example, i answered a question, but they didn't feel it was answered as they liked, so they immediately replied, "i'm going to ask again, do you want to do x or y?"
in my culture, if it was me in his situation i would assume the person didn't understand the question and that it was my fault, so i would say, "sorry, maybe i didn't explain well. are you interested in x or y?"
to me, their response felt hostile, being so direct and dry. however, i believe they didn't mean to be rude, but i perceived them as such.
unfortunately, this caused problems as i didn't pass the first phase, which is rare in my experience as i've done many interviews and i always pass 1st stage. the feedback was that i struggled to communicate and even went off-topic.
when i do interviews with the usa companies is the opposite, "you really know what you are talking about, very high energy and know how to communicate etc.."
how do you deal with this in an interview? do you try to stay as neutral as possible? i try my best to read the room, but i also don't want to work in a company where i can't be myself, so i take the risk, to be honest.
p.s.: btw this was an example not mean to offend anyone, but i had multiple interviews there and had the same with similar feedback from companies in that region.

thrown off by recruiter's e-mail
had a phone screening for a senior designer position on friday . got this email from the recruiter today. 
https://preview.redd.it/iegea2bomouc1.jpg?width=498&format=pjpg&auto=webp&s=8f4291c176bd701876adc2b128387b9371354125
i thought it went well and am fine not getting the position, surprised by the second to last sentence where they recommend a junior position. for context, a quick career rundown:
"graphic designer" - 3 years designing brochures, flyers, logos, e-mails, etc 
"senior designer" - 4 years designing/building websites on platforms like wordpress, logos, signage, digital campaigns, etc
"experience designer" - 4+ years wireframing, lo to hi fi prototyping, implementing accessibility/responsiveness, building/maintaining design systems, etc
i understand titles vary by organization/industry, and also that i may not have enough experience for a senior position. but didn't think i was at the "junior" level. i also wonder if she is thinking of someone else, as she says she "appreciates my patience", even though we spoke less than a business day ago.  
i felt arrogant sending my response, but i tried to be polite, and thought it was valid. 
what do y'all think? i understand that titles are often inaccurate in terms of responsibility, but don't understand the "junior" comment. if portfolio context helps: i have had all positive feedback from the hiring managers of the 3 other positions i am interviewing for. 
any thoughts on their email and/or my response are appreciated.
thanks
edit: apologies  if i was unclear. the point of my post is: considering my experience, should i indeed be exploring junior roles? i personally don’t think i should, but maybe i am wrong, which is why i am asking the audience of this subreddit. i’m hoping for more input from a ux designer’s perspective in consideration of my experience, as it could potentially help me accurately choose roles to apply to.

how do you choose the right ux course when you have more than thousands available online?
hi everyone,
can someone please recommend some reputable schools or programs?
i have a unique situation. 
last year, i took a certification course in user experience design and development at ocad university, thanks to a 50% scholarship. to be frank, i don't have a substantial portfolio to show for it. my coursework was primarily a powerpoint presentation, and despite using it, i haven’t secured a single interview. the course focused a lot on ux history and lacked practical applications.
i am a multimedia designer 9yo exp eager to transition into product design. in my last position, i applied what i learned from my certification to redesign our website, but i didn't have the chance to work with a ux team. i've been looking for volunteer opportunities to build my portfolio, but without tangible design work to showcase, it's been challenging to find someone willing to take a chance on me.
given that i was recently laid off, i’m contemplating investing my savings into another program that is recognized by employers and can help me build a solid portfolio in both canada and the us. i’m neurodivergent, so i’m seeking programs that are less than six months long, as that’s the timeframe i can fully commit to.

white boarding exercises for candidates
as a way to evaluate thinking on your feet, and demonstrate thought process. what are your best experiences with white boarding exercises during an interview?
i've been looking at resources like [https://uxtools.co/challenges/](https://uxtools.co/challenges/) but these don't feel appropriate for a one to one interview.

should i write back after getting feedback with rejection?
the story was that i had 3 steps of job interview as a designer, the  last was presentation of 2 of my projects. on the call i presented my  first project then when i was going to present the second one the  interviewer said that my first project was enough for them, and i can  send them my presentation, which i didn't do, because i was hesitant  sharing my script. we just chatted until the end, mostly about team  working stuff. i was quite confident about this interview, but i was  rejected. in feedback, they have written that they are looking for  somebody with more experience in ux methodologies, processes, and  research. i believe the other, not presented (but available in my  portfolio) project shows more ux methods. my question is, should i  respond to feedback email attaching my presentation and asking if they  would like to reconsider my candidacy after reading my presentation? i  don't want to make them angry in case of a new recruitment in the  future. and question to recruitment managers, did you ever change your  mind after rejecting somebody?

feeling hopeless
is anybody else’s job search going as poorly as mine? i’m a seasoned lead level designer with around 7 years experience. got laid off a month ago and cannot get past a phone screen if i even get that. doesn’t matter what referrals i get, who i know at what company, what changes i make to my portfolio. not getting any calls. previously had only not gotten past a phone screen twice before in all of my seven years. any tips or general support is appreciated.

green tech companies with product design teams
just curious if anyone is familiar with any green tech companies that have product experiences and design teams. looking to start compiling a list of companies to watch and maybe reach out to in the next year or so

data + hope for your job search
hey folks!
i'll start by stating the obvious: it's rough out there right now. so as a way to offer this community some hope, i wanted to share my experience searching for and landing a job in the current market.
for context: i'm a senior designer in the u.s. that's spent the past 5 years at a small, but established agency. for my next role, i wanted to step away from an agency setting and land something in-house and remote.
i spent the last 2 months of '23 designing and building my portfolio in framer, tailoring my resume, and getting feedback before i sent out my first application in january.
for the first \~40 days, i was essentially shouting into the void; networking, sending out applications with customized resumes and cover letters - all to get absolutely nothing in return. i mean, it was nice meeting folks while networking, but it wasn't fruitful in finding a local job that was also remote.
it became clear that i needed to adjust my strategy, so here's what i did:
* i started looking for jobs to apply to twice a day: first thing in the morning, and late afternoon. this increased my chances of finding \*fresh\* job posts and getting my application in asap.
* i focused my efforts on mid-size companies located in eastern or central time zones. granted there are less of them, but i did this for 2.5 reasons:
1. large/faang companies out west receive the greatest amount of applications 1.5) i've worked with large clients over the years and they were consistently the *worrrst* to deal with
2. i noticed a lot of applications coming in from the west coast so i opted to use my location (shoutout cle) as a way to gain leverage with opportunities in my time zone.
* the most robust projects in my portfolio are saas products, so i zeroed in on those opportunities to better leverage my skillset.
these changes made all difference and i landed 4 interviews in quick succession. from there, i jumped through the typical hoops (screener, multiple rounds of interviews and working sessions) and received an offer that i happily accepted.
in summary: i really just wanted to share this because i know how easy it is to get down on yourself during this process. keep trying. if what you're doing isn't working, try approaching it from a slightly different angle and see what changes picks up traction. i've included a chart detailing some more data points, but i'm happy to answer any questions or offer some advice. you've got this!
https://preview.redd.it/ydy4g7tq8wtc1.png?width=1196&format=png&auto=webp&s=ade813fb9020793997ddae300ac98f363ad4f1a0

upskilling to senior in down-time
tldr - mid-level designer wanting to reach senior within 1 year, asking for starting points to upskill during 2 months of free time :)
&#x200b;
heyo design fam!
finally found a job after almost a year of searching. signed the offer letter last month. yay! for reference, i'm the op for [this rant post](https://www.reddit.com/r/uxdesign/comments/17i0b0c/im_tired/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web3x&utm_name=web3xcss&utm_term=1&utm_content=share_button). thank you to the folks who provided good feedback for my portfolio. happy to answer any questions about the job search.  
the employer is currently filing for my visa in the us. honestly, even though i want to celebrate, i'm not doing it until i actually land in the us. because of my experience with rescinded offers and visa problems, i'm trying to not get too excited about it.  
anyway, because of visa processing i have about 2 months of down-time. i currently rate myself as mid-level with 4+ yoe and i want to become (genuinely) senior within 1 year. where should i start?  
there are several domains i want to improve on:
1. craftsmanship skills - practice visual design and have figma skills be second nature
2. ownership / influencing skills - i don't think i can practice this without working unless people have ideas
3. developing a niche/superpower - i'm fairly good at illustration and i want to get better at either motion design (because i find it fascinating) or react (i was a developer before design and can learn quickly) or designing for ai (thinking for the future)
any advice on where to start on any of the above points is super helpful. if i'm missing the mark and should focus on something completely different, i'm open to suggestions.
good things,
\-/t/

is it ok to connect on linkedin with interviewers after a great interview
after 4 rounds of interviews with a company i really liked, i made it to the top 2 candidates but they unfortunately extended an offer to the other person so i was wondering if it's ok to connect with the people i interviewed with on linkedin. i feel like it could be very useful later, we might run into each other again. they said they really liked me and i interviewed really well with them.

questions to ux/ui/web designers hiring managers
after 10y working for the same company, i'm about to embark on the very crazy waters of job hunting. i'm a senior designer with a fairly good amount of good work and a couple of high tier clients. i work mostly in figma and i'm very proficient in it. i would like to know your opinion on receiving a prototype link to a portfolio instead of a dedicated website? assuming all the information is in there, and the prototype is nice, without broken links, clean interactions, nice transitions, etc, what would you say could break it or make it? do you consider candidates who have a personal website a better fit? what if the website is free like wix, framer, regular behance, carbonmade, etc? 
i would really appreciate your opinion and tips on this if you have any. 
thanks.

state of design hirings in india
don’t know how to feel about it.

how do you stand out in today's job market?
i have been on the job market for 18 months now. i made the mistake of thinking that since i've been able to get a job rather quickly in the past, i rejected job offers that were either low-paying or production work at the beginning of my search.
i've been mentoring younger designers and have helped them to get employed, so i clearly have learned something in the past 17 years. however, i am still unemployed. my portfolio is not something that i'm proud of (which is why i'm not sharing it). it's not my true style. my true style does not have shiny (my non-designer calls them) interactions. do i need to have shiny interactions to even compete?

canadian ux designers who transitioned to fulltime working in silicon valley, can you share your journey?
interested in learning what your education and work experience was and how you made the jump

when do you stop interviewing?
i’ve been in this game long enough to have seen offers rescinded and last minute hiring freezes and all sorts of things go wrong. 
i’ve been job hunting for a few months, i’m lucky enough to have an offer on the table now and i’m in the 5 and 6 rounds in a few others places that look promising. i’ve stopped applying to new positions.
i’m planning on keeping as many irons in the fire as i can to try mitigate against any unforeseens and/or in case i find that the new job is a toxic sh1tshow from day one. 
*** i’m aware that i am fortunate enough to be in a position where i have an offer and  opportunities. i have a lot of experience in ux product and visual design and live in a city where there are a lot of tech companies. 
i’m interested to know when others stop interviewing? do you keep going so that you have as many opportunities as possible, or am i being overly paranoid?

thinking about quitting ux because of business politics and opinion wars – need advice.
hey fellow designers, i'm looking for any advice and opinions i can get on my situation:
as the title says, i'm thinking about quitting ux because of all the internal political work that it entails. i have noticed that stakeholder meetings, marketing decisions, consultation, etc. all are not for me and i hate everything about them.
a little background info: i studied ux design and since graduating two years ago have been working as a ux designer in a rather big and reputable agency. i solely do ux work there, we have a separate department for ui. i liked studying ux and am still passionate about good ux, clever ideas and implementation, design research and heuristics, and finding good solutions to big problems.
however, i have found myself extremely demotivated in the past months to even get up and go to work. it seems that my days only consist of meetings, company politics, selling ux work, juggling stakeholder demands, opinion wars, and so on. the actual design work is more of a side issue and does not take the focus even in meetings and collaboration. i know nobody really likes these things, but i get the feeling my personality (being a shy introvert) is just not cut out for this and it also affects my quality of work.
i know that i can learn to become better at these things, but i honestly don't even want to. i feel like having to defend my designs in constant opinion wars really gets to me and triggers some sort of imposter syndrome – or maybe i just am a bad designer and don't like that this is being shoved in my face daily. people around me are becoming senior designers and when i see the job they are doing it makes me dread taking that step one day... all they do is strategy and politics.
all of this led to my confidence being at an all time low which makes me feel even less equipped to do my job right and discuss my designs confidently. it makes me think i am just not cut out for this and will not be happy with ux as my career. recently i have been thinking about switching to the ui department. in my imagination this would mean less consultation and strategy, and more actual design work with visuals and tangible elements.
what is your opinion on this? do any of you feel the same? did any of you make that switch? i am so unsure about where to go from here, so any advice is appreciated.

q for seniors / career advice: taking career break to start a start up
hey guys, 
i have a design degree and 1 year and 10 months experience as a ux designer plus 6 months before that as a graphic designer. i’m thinking of taking 6 months off to try see if i can start my own startup  and gain traction within that time.
my question is, in case it doesn’t work out, do you think it would be challenging to get rehired as a designer. im in london uk for context.

where to go from here? seeking career advice and guidance
i find myself at a crossroads in my design career and am seeking advice and guidance to navigate through this phase. need some advice from you my fellow experienced designers!
# some background
* went to private art classes since i was kid, have a good understanding of colour theory and compositions
* initially pursued design but realized its hard to make money (this is before the iphone era)
* graduated with business marketing degree and fine arts certificate
* did some side gigs in digital arts, skilled in photoshop and illustrator
* took some random courses on coding, skilled in with html and css
* worked in retail and finance for a long time, managing people and handling investments and loans
* switched career in late 20s, went to bootcamp for ux
* worked at some start ups and charity places before landing at this current public sector job. didn’t like the marketing agencies as they don’t really care about ux and just want to pump out pretty designs every week
# current state
* living in vancouver canada, still renting
* turning 34 this year and i feel old and behind in terms of career and starting a family. currently saving in hoping to purchase a place with girlfriend and get married
* intermediate ux designer at public sector job, very fortunate to find a design career in the public sector, i wanted to make a difference doing something i love
* 10k debt from previous student loan
# why i want to leave my current job
* feel old and behind in terms of career, starting a family, and having my own place
* public pay is alright but still not enough compared to private sector jobs. who doesn’t want a higher pay
* things are too slow in the public sector, projects don’t seem intriguing. i don’t feel like i’m learning much and i want to work on more interesting projects
* job hopping makes a difference, i know a few who are less talented but still able to jump higher pay and positions because of it
# where i want to be in the next 5 years
* senior designer or higher
* work on mobile apps, b2c or b2b products
* get married
* long term goal work at apple, microsoft, google etc.. yes i like to dream big and thats how i got to where i am today
# potential opportunities
**option 1: switch to private sector**
i think this option makes the most sense for higher pay and experience, especially if i can’t or no need to get enough further education
pros 
* higher pay, move to higher positions faster, work on more interesting projects and level my skillset further
cons
* no stability, somewhat matters due to my age and forthcoming wants such as getting married
\_
**option 2: go back to school for a degree or masters in design**
working at public sector means work life balance, and i feel like i can manage work and school with this balance.
probably one of my biggest drawbacks is that i don’t have a degree or masters in design. although my portfolio and skillset were able to get me to where i am today, it was a difficult journey as i was only able to demonstrate those after i got into the company.
* someone who has a design degree but performs worse gets promoted before me due to their background in design
* i have to prove myself only when i have the right projects to demonstrate that and if i have the right audience to present to
* lacking a degree in design makes it harder for me to get through the hr door
pros
* strengthen my resume
cons
* brings no additional knowledge, more debt and might push my marriage further down the road
blockers
* honestly wouldn’t even consider spending another 40k on higher education, max 20k that i’m comfortable with
* i don’t think i qualify for masters, i don’t have 3.0 gpa (2.8/2.9) as i know most of the schools i’ve looked at the minimum entry to masters is 3.5 gpa with 1-2 schools accepting 3.0. and also mind that not all of them even offers online masters.
\_
**option 3: stay where i am and try to move up**
hard to do so given the current structure of the team but not impossible. however, to give you a sense, even if i move up one level higher i’ll be just hitting 100k annual. im not saying this is not a lot of money but given my position and experience, i feel like i could be getting higher from the private sector
pros
* stability
cons
* i don’t think this meets my goals in the long run. the longer i stay the more time i waste
feel free to ask any questions, happy to answer any. really want some guidance on what to do onwards. i have been going back and forth on this and i don’t know what to do.
thank you in advance designers!

so is my job a complete waste of time?
a little background:
i've been working sales for over 15 years and recently decided to pivot into ux because it felt like a great fit. my current job somehow allowed me to switch over to the ux team without a formal interview which was great but... i find it all pretty lacking.
right now, because of the way ux is regarded and how timelines tend to shake out, the usual workflow involves sitemaps, wireframes, and functional annotations. not much else. there's not much research happening, no testing, no... anything. there's an audit here and there but yea.
i'm not really learning much and i find it really hard to find ways to fit in more deliverables since everything is so fast a furious. do i need to move on or is this typical? just want to make sure i'm not completely wasting my time.

as a design team lead, how you handle team members not give a sh*t about the tasks you ask them to do?
i’m not a team lead/manager, just i have seen my colleagues not really taking seriously on the tasks the manager ask the team to do and submit on time. the manager always send the reminder messages in the group chat but still no one responds. i’m always the one to respond and thought it can help the team engagement.
the events are like: 
“who’s going to demo the design this friday” — no response.
“submit the xxx feedback form by friday” —- no response.
“what are your thoughts on this design” — no response. 
etc.
i was thinking if i’m in their position what are the best way to deal with this situation. 
ps. total product design team size about 20+ designers. already split to smaller teams like 6-7 designers a team. results still the same.

the unbearable anxiety of the 'background check'
maybe it's my impostor syndrome but the pre-hire background check freaks me the f\*$k out. i've been through several comprehensive background checks through the years but every time the anxiety gets worse!   
it's not just me right?

facing rejections everywhere! can’t figure out why.
i have 6 years of experience in ui/ux field. i studied engineering for my bachelors and made a shift to ux. 
i’m now looking for a new opportunity as my current firm doesn’t offer any career progression and my title has always remained ux designer across the 4 places i worked at.
i am a strong designer who’s won awards for their projects and a design ip. 
i have applied to a hundred companies in the last 3 months. and it’s a no from everyone !
my cv is a minimalist layout that talks about my responsibilities across projects and outcomes in 4-5 points. i also mentioned what i do apart from design like workshops, training etc. to show that i’m a well rounded person who likes to get involved in activities beyond projects. 
i don’t get it. i don’t even make it to the interview stage. 
what am i lacking ? what is my cv lacking ? is it my lack of a degree ? 
edited to add: i have worked extensively with a project that directly incorporates ai and the ux required for it. 
edit 2: thank you all for the inputs. here are my action points from this post and also for somebody else struggling with the same issue - 
• have an ats compliant resume. figma export to pdf makes the doc unreadable. 
• have another look at my portfolio. try to enhance my “problem statement “ type presentation. 
• build my own website. 
• post my resume / website for review once it’s updated.

laid off before promoted to senior
in november my manager told me i would be getting a title promotion to senior product designer in march to coincide with the supposed launch of the product i was working on, and a comp adjustment in december. december rolls around and we lost some contracts, so the comp adjustment was much lower than expected. contract for my product gets cut in march (last real revenue generator for us) and the whole design team got laid off.
now that i'm trying to find my next role, i'm really feeling like that title promotion would have been very helpful...any advice?  
edit to add a little more context: i spent 10 years in another design industry, not specifically digital ux before switching to ux 2 years ago. ui/ux comes very naturally to me, and my former employer recognized that i have much more relevant experience than a 2 year "boot camper," hence the pending promotion. however, on paper, i think i probably look much more inexerienced than i am (however maybe that's me just being overly optimistic and i really am just a 2 year boot camper, i'm sure i'll hear more in the comments) perhaps this is a whole other topic, but i am feeling that the senior title would be helpful in convincing other employers that i have the equivalent of more "senior" experience....definitely agree with all the comments that titles are fairly meaningless in general in this industry.

whispers of change. what do you think of it?
hey all. the market isn’t in good shape right now, in my country, it’s even worse than globally. despite having a wonderful 5 years in ux/ui and loving this field, i’m wondering if it's time to switch to another role. what could it be? engineering? product management? non-it work? please share your thoughts and ideas.

folders and tags in figma
are you desperate for a better way of organising your files in figma? 
are you wondering why they haven’t introduced folders or tags before even with more than 1200 votes for this feature on the figma community forum?
me too. i’m sure figma has a good reason why they haven’t introduced this feature yet but i wanted to see what it could actually look like and if it would be useful at all.
i dived into what people say about this potential feature and studied their proposed solution for better file organisation. most people mentioned folders and tags as they work well in other software and they both have their own benefits.
personally, i love both of them. when i code, sometimes it helps that i can have a look at my folder structure and i find tags extremely helpful when i work with databases in notion (for example when we do our monthly budget).
i didn’t see a reason why not to use both of them so based on my findings on the figma community i have sketched out a lot of different potential solutions and ended up with one that can seamlessly blend tags and folders together.
i have prototyped this solution and wrote a case study about it (https://www.istvan-toth.com/work/figma-folders-and-tags). this concept is not 100% finished but i would love to know what you think about it so i can maybe refine it further.
would you find this helpful in your workflow?

how do you prepare for a design round urging an interview?
i have a second interview for a sr ux design position with a big pharmaceutical company, and it will consist of two parts, i will be reviewing one of my portfolio case studies (which i have prepped for) and then there is a design round partnering with one of their designers. they said they will be going through the problem/situation during the interview session and would like to see how i approach it to solve the design problem on the spot. i will be given 45 min to create a solution. 
any advice on what i should expect? what should i look out for? 
thank you in advance!

where do y'all look for jobs?
i work at a non-profit and we're looking for a ui/ux designer for a cost analysis online platform. wondering where designers (particularly with ui/tech experience) generally look for job postings - preferably in the non-profit sector, but not absolutely necessary. this job in particular will be based in the global south, so if you have any intel into job boards that cater to your demographic (tech/social good/global south (sub-saharan africa/south asia), please do let me know!

would you take a pay cut to move to a more senior position?
hey everyone,  
i'm currently a senior content design contractor in the netherlands making good money (without the benefits). i have an interview for the role of head of ux writing in berlin. it seems like a great opportunity to progress my career but i'd almost definitely have to take a pay cut. i own an apartment here, have friends and hobbies, and i love the standard of living. i really like berlin but i'm not sure i'd prefer it as a place to live.  
would you make potential sacrifices like this for a step up the career ladder?

final round interview for a senior ux role with no senior experience. should i reconsider?
as the title states i’ve been looking for a new job for about a year now and have had some pretty good interviews, made in to the 3rd/4th round interview with a few of them. 
fast forward to this week. i’ve been invited for a final interview in person. this role is for a senior ux designer. ive transitioned into ux from product management but only have about 3-4 years under my belt with an actual ux title. 
am i going to be dooming myself if they offer it and i take it? apart me knows that it would be good experience and the title bump would be amazing but another part of me feels like i could be setting myself up for failure. 
while i’m pretty confident i can do the job there is of course that seed of doubt.  what if i leave my current (non-ux) job for this but get let go by not living up to their standards. has anyone else here been in my shoes and if so any advice you may have would be appreciated.

[uk] two roles on the table: what would you pick?
i’m a senior ux designer (8yoe) predominantly in agency side. 
my experience lies mostly in web. 
ux strategy, qual research strategy (and conducting), user flows, lowfi wireframing/prototypes, cross functional teams at enterprise level, product thinking and stakeholder/client management are my strengths. 
i’ve made the decision to seek new opportunities from my current agency position due to various factors but, predominantly because i don’t believe the company that acquired the agency is a business i wish to work for - our values and culture do not align. 
i appreciate i’m in a privileged position compared to many peers who are left unemployed involuntarily but i hope you’ll be able to help me out. 
role 1:
* senior ux design role in an enterprise level software business (2020 revenue $1.5bil)
* business heritage is us with teams across north america and north europe 
* software is very specialised to support infrastructure engineering/ architect/ construction
* salary not confirmed but my london salary did not put them off
* second stage (of three) interview next week with the ux director, passed first stage with ux manager who said the interview was very positive.
* ux manager believes they’re 3-4 years away from reaching good ux maturity 
* global ux team of ~30 in different products 
* remote or offers hybrid if i wish to work in the london office (i would choose remote as i don’t live in a commutable distance)
* i don’t think they work in scrum, agile or product approaches but they have said they have product managers 
role 2:
* ux lead role in an e-commerce business in the education sector (parent company 2020 revenue £189mil)
* ecom business to sell suppliers to nurseries and primary schools
* heritage is british but have outsourced many roles to india 
* not london based but local to me (i.e salaries are lower)
* worked with them as a freelance consultant for a few months on/off so i am acquainted 
* head of product wants to bring me on permanently. i declined in november 2023 as the total compensation was ~15k lower than my current role (i am on london salary) but they’ve called me back march 2024 and asked me to reconsider if they can match my current salary (way above average for the region). this is despite the head of product confirming he’s shortlisted two candidates for the role yet still asking for me to reconsider (much needed ego boost to stoke the imposter syndrome)
* 1 day a week onsite (not an issue)
* no lengthy interviewing process, confirmed by hiring manager (1 stage with hr, 1 stage with hiring manager)
* company leadership is incredibly archaic and digital maturity is as low as it gets with one head of product and one product manager - developers and designers are agency. (i.e a lot of hand holding coming my way)
* after a failed multi million digital transformation project, the business went through two series of redundancies and closed down operations on their other ecommerce business late last year
* way too low in maturity to have scrum, agile or product approaches - often hippos are dictating and expertise can be left unlistened to
the big question i have for you is which role would you pick and what is your reasoning?
some reservations and personal thoughts:
* i’m worried about us corporate culture will be highly prevalent in role 1 - coming from a relaxed agency culture, i’m worried this will be unsettling. i’ve worked for enterprise level clients (an american one too) but i’m hesistant it’ll be different as a perm member of staff
* i’ve never worked in software before and i’m not sure if this is a good career decision to make (is there good job security in this economy? will i be able to find new roles if i wish to move on?) - from a skills perspective, i asked the ux manager if it concerns him that i’ve never worked in software and he said no as long as the ux background is solid. 
* i’m seeking a career role rather than just a job and i don’t know which of the two roles can offer that
* i’ve always shyed away from corporate roles (i can’t speak corporate) but the market is terrible and maybe i need to suck it up if i like money
* role 1 confirmed they would support my journey to get accredited from nng (2 more credits to go!) and the ux manager is certified himself. role 2 doesn’t even know what nng is.

not feeling like a true ux designer: seeking guidance
hello everyone,
i’m seeking your advices and assistance.
i'm a ux designer with over four years of experience. honestly, i've never truly felt deserving of the title of a ux designer. throughout my career, the companies i've worked for lacked a structured workflow or design process; they only expected ui mockups as deliverables without any user research or interviews. and even to this day, the development and technical teams heavily influence my decisions, sometimes to the detriment of user experience, as management prioritizes time efficiency over user-centric design.
in all my experiences, i've been the sole designer on the team, lacking any defined process or methodology in my design approach. i made design decisions based on assumptions and internet research, occasionally reflecting on past designs. i never conducted user interviews or based decisions on real user data. my workflow typically involved receiving requirements and diving straight into ui design.
this has led me to question whether i'm truly a ux designer or just a ui designer or somewhere in between. i feel left behind, undervalued, and unsure of how to progress in my career.
i've never formally studied ux design, and i lack a website portfolio; all my works (ui designs) are stored in a google drive folder.
i want to elevate my skills, leverage my past experiences, and transition into a real ux designer role. what steps should i take to gain the necessary knowledge and experiences to own the title of a ux designer and work within a genuine ux process grounded in user research and data?
is it my responsibility to introduce a ux workflow in the project i'm working on, not having sprints of design ahead of development sprints?
how can i stop being a “handy designer” who just works on random design pages (often with technical influences that make for a horrible user experience) focusing solely on producing mockups?
i'd appreciate any advice or insights on how to deal with technical teams that limit design decisions and how to establish myself as a proficient ux designer.
thank you!

need help with interview presentation
hi all! 
i’m interviewing for a design systems role (which is my current role as well) and i made it to the portfolio review stage. however, the way they approach this part of the process is different than other portfolio reviews i’ve done and i need help. below is what i was sent in an email. 
portfolio presentation overview:
we’d like you to cover (3) projects (10-15 mins each). below are the areas we are interested in learning about, please choose (3) of the following topics. ideally two projects are ui kit presentations of the design system and one project will be an application of a system:
1. design system - accessibility
2. design system - form heavy, high interaction
3. mobile (web, app) - responsive
4. design system - tokens
5. micro interactions
6. design system - documentation
the thing is, aside from documentation i don’t think i have enough work to do an entire presentation on any of the topics. i’ve created component libraries (or as they call them, ui kits) with accessibility in mind and we transitioned from theme variables to tokens and i had to apply those to the library. it just feels like if i were to pick those topics, i would be bs-ing my way through a presentation. 
anyone have tips on how they’d approach this?

how are the us-based designers doing?
i'm based in canada and used to work for us-based clients a lot. for about 2 years now that has dried out and a lot of jobs are for us-based employees only, even for fully remote works.
canada isn't doing well and i see far fewer jobs naturally, and us jobs.. well, i see new jobs almost every 2 weeks. how are y'all doing down there? 😭

does this seem normal?
hey ux fam, i found this interesting design position, but they're requiring a few steps in their process:
&#x200b;
&gt;form - get to know you  
&gt;  
&gt;video - show how you think  
&gt;  
&gt;culture call - see cultural fit  
&gt;  
&gt;whiteboarding session - see your skills  
&gt;  
&gt;cofounder call - get to know deeper  
&gt;  
&gt;paid trial period - work together  
&gt;  
&gt;offer
seems like a lot of steps to me, is this a red flag? i should mention that the video step involves:
&#x200b;
&gt;\- define the main objective of the site. (5 seconds)  
&gt;  
&gt;\- define three sub goals to achieve the main objective (20 seconds)  
&gt;  
&gt;\- describe what you would change, how to achieve sub goals, and the outcome (1.5 minutes)  
&gt;  
&gt;be as descriptive as possible in your action plan  
&gt;  
&gt;no need to create designs, just talk over the \[name\] screen shot  
&gt;  
&gt;don't use a generic approach, propose \[name\] specific solutions  
&gt;  
&gt;make assumptions about data
&#x200b;
should i pass on this one?

content designer looking to transition to product design
i’m a senior level product content designer but would love to transition to a product design role within the next 2 years (or however long it takes). i know a lot about best practices, what design decisions to make, etc – so i believe i’ve got the theory part down. however i lack the technical skills to execute on figma and other design software.
any tips on how i can start working towards a switch?
(i’m looking for advice that’s beyond “learn figma”. i know all the basics from my day to day work i just don’t know how to get intermediate/advanced while also working on real problems)

how do i tell my boss that i want to fully transition into ux out from being a graphic designer?
i’m a senior graphic designer but currently also doing ux/ui tasks for the company’s websites, dashboards. 
but it is so overwhelming that i am on verge of burning out.
my boss isn’t from a design background and doesn’t understand the amount of work that goes into both roles. i have already discussed my interests in transitioning into ux last summer so she knows about it. 
the problem is the current junior graphic designer can’t handle the workload neither has the skills to do bigger graphic design projects so i feel like they been keeping me in this role until he either improves or we hire another designer.
but i don’t know how to begin letting my boss know as all she thinks is graphic design is the same as ux/ui.
need advice please 🙏

about to get laid off in this struggling job economy
i feel like the writing's on the wall. my manager ignores my posts and comments, reschedules and cancels our weekly meetings, gave my project to another designer and left me empty-handed and tells me they don't know what other work will be coming in or when. they once laughed at one of my ideas in the chat of a meeting with my cross-functional project team. i've asked if there is anything that i could do for them or the team to make myself useful and they simply ignored me.
my last performance review was mostly positive. i have done a lot to help our work to create more impact. the company has been going through major changes. i've been there for a while; they've been there for about a year. not sure why they want to get rid of me, but getting laid off in this current state of things is scary. i have kids and a mortgage and am the primary bread winner.
should i bother with asking them what's going on or just get my shit together and prepare for what's most likely coming?

whats your opinion about design recruiters from external hr agencies?
whats their work? how to make the most out of them? what do they do?

job market is starting to feel like an episode of black mirror
i’ve recently been having this existential crisis about the fate of ux design and my career as a whole. i rewatched the nosedive episode in black mirror and it summed up perfectly my thoughts on how we have to brand ourselves on social media in order to stand out in a sea full of applicants. also, it seems like people with high social followings and engagement seem to have more opportunities. where does that leave those of us who don’t like to use these platforms?
i’ve been battling with this observation as an introvert and wondering how do i create more opportunities for myself in the current design industry.
it seems like i have to market myself in the same fake way i see on linkedin in order to stand out from other qualified applicants. this is difficult  for me because i just want to be able to work doing something i love and live my life. i don’t want to feel like i have to brand myself on linkedin, tiktok, and other social platforms in order to get opportunities to then be laid off later.
anyone else been feeling like this?
(background: i have 4yoe and was just recently laid off in january)

i have been searching for just over a year now...
6 yoe
...anyone still struggling to secure full-time work? i was laid off last february, and since then i have gotten close in the final interview, and i had two offers rescinded. that was a while ago, now it's almost perpetual radio silence. i'm not sure if it's me, my work, my resumé, or just the way the wind is blowing now.
thankfully i have had a consistent freelance client for the past few months, but full-time is a crapshoot.
anyone else still searching? any advice would be beneficial. i am also open to showing y'all my resumé and/or (wip) portfolio to those interested. feel free to dm me :)
to those still hunting, stay strong 💪

need help landing a role.
hey gang, i have been having a hell of a time landing my next role. between outright rejections after the screener (just happened with okta) or making it to the final round , and then being rejected…nothing seems to be working (just happened with onetrust). 
instead of focusing on the negative though, i want to know what has been working for you. how did you go about landing your next role in this climate? what worked for you? 
in the spirit of giving back, here is how i have landed interviews: 
1) short and concise case studies 
2) talking about the impact of recent projects in my resume. 
3) showing how i’ve been integrating ai into my design process. 
all of these things have worked for me. 
it has t gotten me a job. so what tips and tricks have worked for you? 
also for those looking right now: i know the job market is tough. hang in there.

design engineer interview process
hi team, i have got an opportunity to prepare for a design engineer role which demands uiux skills. 
along with this they also mentioned about front end development skills like html, css,js,reactjs. 
the initial round was said like i’ll have to prepare a slideshow with some design (my own designs) and discussion will be on that presentation. 
i was majorly into frontend side like a ui developer but also have experience with figma in designing mobile apps, landing pages and websites. 
i would like to know from you folks in the first round common for design related roles? has anyone gone thru a similar experience?
i’m looking to learn more about your interview experiences. 
the company said there will be system design and dsa round too. i’m like wtf. design plus dev knowledge is rare but mastering in both is tough i think. 
please advise or share your experiences.

are website and pages are not considered as actual ux design projects?
so, i am working in a b2c company with mobile connectivity as a core business, for last past 2 years i have worked mainly on webpages and new launches, including devices and services. recently started applying for jobs and got interviewed in 2-3 companies, but got rejected in portfolio round. the project i presented was the entire website strategy and how i manage data and make decisions with stakeholders. it is a website with a lot of kpis and traffic redirection with over 1m daily traffic. so a lot more complex than a normal website. recently i came across a few job openings with statements that they don't entertain websites and campaigns, so now i am questioning if i should add more complexity or change projects entirely. what sort of projects hms usually look for in pfs?   
&#x200b;

networking to get a job! any advice please!
hello everyone,
&#x200b;
like a lot of people in the ux space, i am back on the job market in this terrible economy. i (similar to i'm sure many others) have been spoiled in the fact that recruiters used to reach out on a a consistent daily basis with job opportunities. however, there has been a slow down in recruiters reaching out tremendously, and when i do follow up with them about the position, they either give me no response, looking for a more experienced candidate, or another vague answer. i have found myself having to do cold applying on the company website, however i am needing some assistance on the networking area. can anyone with experience networking to land a job give any advice? it would be greatly appreciated!!! i hope this post can help others in a similar position!

how many interviews is too many?
i recently completed 5 rounds of interviews for a mid-senior ux designer role at a global technology consultancy, with 3 of these interviews being conducted by 2 interviewers. despite this, i have yet to receive a response. my current job in fintech also required five interviews.  
i can't help but wonder if so many interviews are really necessary. i feel like i'm repeating myself constantly, and the process is not only redundant but also inconsiderate of a candidate's time.  
for someone currently employed, scheduling so many interviews can be quite challenging. i also question the need for 7-8 people to make a decision on one person. the process could certainly be more agile.

5+ final round interviews, still no offer.
just venting. i've been job searching almost a year now. i've made it to the final round about 5 times through rigorous interview processes, only to be told that they decided to go a different direction and are no longer hiring for the role. 
most recently, i made it to a final round after whiteboard and panel interviews, only to be told it was so close with me and the other candidate, that it came down to the other candidate had used the company platform (as a user) more. (a learning platform used in classrooms. i hadn't had the opportunity to use it in schools i taught at, but used other learning platforms)
i'm just frustrated and don't know what more to do. i replied, thanked them for the time and consideration. i asked for feedback, and i also expressed some of my disappointment that that was the deciding factor, especially since i have proven my adaptability in learning several others. anyone else ever have experience with this? i did take a lot of time to learn and study about their platform, listened to hours and hours of youtube videos etc. its just frustrating.

share your freelance experience
it looks like upwork is dead. i’m wondering how to connect with clients. i’m looking for saas owners and startups, but no luck this year. do you have any advice on that? what has your experience in freelancing been so far?

design culture at microsoft? i am currently interviewing and would like insights.
i have an interview at ms this and wanted to prepare in advance. is anyone here working for ms willing to share insights or experience as a designer? thanks!

is it realistic to be expected to take on a second project randomly yet not compromise the quality of my main project?
edit: to give some context, the issue is more related to transparency. project/client 1 reserves and pays for 100% of my time and it’s used up as well. now they want me to take on project/client 2 without telling project/client 1 about it, expecting me to make up for it.
i'm a ux designer at a large organization. currently, i'm assigned to a single project at 100% capacity.
i was recently promoted to senior (on paper, at least), and my lead now expects me to be flexible. he says that this is expected from seniors.
this means that if a 30-60-100 or so hour small project comes through the door or we hire an intern/junior who needs mentoring, i should be able to take care of these without stakeholders noticing this on my main project.
is this really expected from a senior ux designer? i can take care of these for sure, but i don't see how without taking some form of compromise on my main project, thus stakeholders noticing it.

are you getting interviews? checklist
first off, i am not a 'thought leader' or design guru or influencer or anything like that. i am a senior product designer who's been at it for 8 years. i wanted to share a comment i made on a thread based on my personal experience and turn it into a post in hopes of helping others who are looking for a job right now in this terrible economy. i've heard so many people saying 'i'm a senior and haven't had an interview in x months'. that should not be the case. if you are senior or even midlevel, you should at least be getting interviews even in this market. source: i have been getting multiple interviews per week.
if seniors are struggling to get interviews, something's wrong. either with your (general 'you') resume, portfolio, or the way you're presenting your experience. assuming you're not a bootcamper with 14 months under your belt calling yourself 'senior', you should be getting interviews. you should at the very least be moving on to the next round of hoop-jumping bullshit and have the opportunity to complete an unreasonable take home project, complete unethical specwork for free and do the monkey dance for everyone and talk about how much you want to live their company's corporate values in their daily life—and then get ghosted.
if you are not at least moving on to the next layer of hell, something is wrong. it might be:
\* resume. is it simply formatted for an ats to read? did you include all the new buzzwords you asked chatgpt about and embed them? did you use overzealous and aggressive language like 'spearheaded' and 'innovated' instead of 'led' or 'managed'? and if not by god you'd better start. also worthwhile is teal and earnbetter. earnbetter drafts custom resume and cover letters for you for each role but \*make sure you proofread the documents\* because i discovered too late that it sent out a cover letter claiming i had a master's degree in graphic design (lol???)
&#x200b;
\* age discrimination. i've read so many comments saying "i have 15/20/25 etc years of experience and can't get an interview!" my dude, that might be exactly why you are not getting an interview. go ahead and shave off anything beyond 10-15 years from your resume and linkedin. they can find out your age on the background check. similarly, if you are leaving two spaces after a period or using a serif font, stop because that can also age you. take the year you graduated college off as well if it's over 15 years or so.
&#x200b;
\* linkedin. make sure you have some sort of photo so you don't look like a creepy lurker. make sure your keywords are maxed out and you have your buzzword accomplishments listed. add/connect with/follow anyone and everyone you can. any person you add gives you access to their network and if they apply to a job and comment on a post you'll see it and can apply to the same one. it's not facebook. don't treat it like a place to only add people you know. be aware of your comment history. make sure it's professional and something you want prospective employers to see. if it's not, delete your comment history. i saw a post from someone talking about how he had been undiagnosed with bipolar and it turned out he was just in a toxic polyamorous relationship with his two ex boyfriends. also don't make a post about how you haven't gotten an interview in months. yes, people like authenticity but only a sanitized version. otherwise you might be commiserating or entertaining people, but you might be scaring away skittish hiring managers.
&#x200b;
\* portfolio. is your portfolio current? does it showcase 3-6 of your best case studies? do the results include metrics? is the work outdated? no one wants to see projects from 10 years ago even if it was good at the time. is your thumbnail well designed? is there too much text? not enough process? did you update the design to make it visually appealing for an audience? don't just put a crappy flow diagram in there. make it really nice. update the visuals and it can be the version that didn't quite make the cut for when it got shipped. you can still keep it in the ballpark and make it the version you wished it could be. get free design feedback from the professional and free mentors on adplist. i had several rounds of critique that immensely improved my portfolio and everyone i spoke with was professional and incredible insightful and helpful. they even gave me feedback for interviewing strategies. you can speak with industry leading professionals who have years of experience, faang/maang employees, design leaders, creative directors, etc. whoever you want, the best of the best. also, hiring managers do not dig your figma portfolio. if you don't want webflow or squarespace, use uxfolio for free and even the paid version is not that much
* edit to add: job gap. if you have a job gap no you don't because you've been freelancing and working on a passion project with a confidential client
&#x200b;
\* if you do these things i promise you will get at least get interviews! 🤙
feel free to add anything i may have missed.

are all the roles turning into contractor now?
just having a stroll through remote ux jobs on google jobs today, i see about 90% of them are contractor positions.  is that the current trend of things or am i searching something wrong?

what are hard and soft skills i should focus on to grow into a lead designer from a senior level?
https://www.reddit.com/r/uxdesign/comments/1bla158/what_are_hard_and_soft_skills_i_should_focus_on/

has anyone worked at a startup in “stealth mode?”
a recruiter recently reached out to me about a position for startup in “stealth.” is it normal to sign ndas for a startup in stealth mode before even really learning about them?
i’ve worked at startups before and everyone especially the founders always wanted to evangelize and tell every single person about their project. so it just felt a little odd when they sent me an nda.

current senior jobs & salaries breakdown
hey everyone i made a spreadsheet with some current senior (director, head of, manager, etc)  job openings from linkedin. i added the salary range (ranging from 75k to 700k) and deducted state taxes, federal taxes depending on the tax bracket, average cost of living for the city and the estimated monthly savings. the remote positions are using data from miami since that's where i live. hope this helps someone.
[https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1pplj2hkn4j6v6tirsfvsqpvuxv0y6hxqiuciazrotaw/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1pplj2hkn4j6v6tirsfvsqpvuxv0y6hxqiuciazrotaw/edit?usp=sharing)

senior designer contract salary @ faang negotiation
i’m interviewing at a faang company for a contract senior product design position and they asked me how much i want as a hr salary.
i’m thinking around 130 dollars an hour = 270k annual salary is that reasonable? i have 6 yoe as a product designer (3 years at meta) and 4 yoe as a dev.
the staffing agency provides health insurance, but no pto and no w2 matching.  
**update:** i landed 120/hr. i just suggested that and they agreed (probably could have asked for more).

passive aggressive team
my first week at a job, and my ux manager mentioned “churn” a bunch of times. he noticed i had a puzzled look on my face, and asked if i had a question.
i asked what churn meant. in my ~3.5 years as a ux deisgner, i’ve never heard someone say that word before.
he got this almost disgusted look on his face, and didn’t really answer. then, later in another meeting, he mentioned to the whole design team how it’s “okay” to ask stupid questions sometimes.
i just feel like it was obviously directed at me, because he seemed to think i was an idiot for not knowing a word.
most of my design experience was at a non-profit, and literally no one ever mentioned a churn rate. no one cared about tracking metrics there. that area is very new to me.
sad times. that’s all bye bye.

losing hope in finding a product design role
i know i’m not the only one but it’s been a tough 6 months of job searching. i have 6 years of experience in the industry working at agencies and even a degree in ux at from scad. up until now i’ve had a pretty successful career in design and i’m so grateful for that, however i’ve been wanting to get out agencies and go in house for a while. i got laid off 6 months ago when my agency had a merger and i thought this would be a good time for me to transition and boy was i wrong…..i’ve applied to 238 jobs at this point… i’m keeping track and gotten automated rejections mostly. i made it to last rounds with google and meta with some hope only to be told i’m eligible for hire but there are no roles right now and most likely won’t be till 2025 when i’d have to reapply again. i’m exhausted and burnt out from the intense interview preps and the freelance i’m doing in addition. i’ve reached out to many people in my network and all have led to dead ends…not sure what is happening. i feel hopeless and i’m really not sure what to do. i love being a designer and creative but i’m really losing hope at this point.

no direction  at work
using a burner account.
i’m a mid-level designer and just started at a mid-size company.
the second week i was at the company, the ux manager quit. then the design lead in the department i am in quit a week later. so now it’s just me, a senior designer, and a ux director.
but the ux director doesn’t even do anything related to directing. he basically just acts like another designer.
my pm then gave me a large project to work on, with barely any guidance or direction. there’s no brief (at least that i’ve seen), no kickoff meeting, no nothing. i’m not even sure where to start. the product itself doesn’t even have a design system - there’s like 20 different styles of primary buttons in the current existing app. it’s just such a mess.
the project apparently is some love child from the ceo, that has no actual user research behind it.
there’s no tickets, no way to track work, or even see deadlines. i’m just so confused.
the last job i had was very agile. we had daily standups, i worked closely with a pm to define project requirements and understand design work and create tickets so i knew what to work on. the ux director oversaw the whole design team and made sure we were aligned with the overarching design strategy and direction at the company.
i just don’t understand if this type of an environment is normal or what is even going on. i literally have panic attacks before meeting bc i’m not sure what designs to present.
i feel so lost and unsure of how to even deliver the work they’re wanting.

any salesforce ux designers willing to chat?
i'm a uxer with quite a bit of ia / research experience. because i have salesforce keywords in my linkedin profile (from a very old position where i helped out with the system), i regularly get recruiters reaching out to me asking if i have salesforce ux experience.
i know that sf offers a free certification, which looks to be about 40 hours of classroom work and a test. [https://trailhead.salesforce.com/en/credentials/userexperiencedesigner](https://trailhead.salesforce.com/en/credentials/userexperiencedesigner)
anyone familiar with these tools or this as a career path that is willing to chat?
i'm wondering what using sf for ux design entails, and if the certification would be a worthwhile time investment. i'm currently out of work and the current  market is obviously a mess for. any edge i could get to open up new opportunities would be welcomed.
thanks.

rate of contract positions going to perm
any contract workers out there having luck with transitioning to permanent? i'm currently in one right now but will be finishing up shortly. kinda of wondering if my will go perm. they sent me to get trained in the industry, bought my own computer and i'm the only designer on the team i'm on with a new project. but have to deal with some ego and over zealous managers who think they can do my job but also affect how i do my job.

existential crisis about being a designer.
i've been a product designer coming up to 6 years. my manager has been a great coach and says what's preventing me from being a true senior are my soft skills (stakeholder management, knowing how to lead, creating impact in the business). 
thing is, in my current role, it's quite a high-pressure role. i'm working across 3 squads, delivering solutions at speed according to roadmaps, and i'm expected to handle doing bau work and also work on levelling up my skills. i don't have time to work on my own skills during work time. i can choose to do it during work time, but that will impact my work. i can do it outside of work, but i'm so drained by 5:30pm/6pm that i don't have the energy. i just want it to be a job.
i guess i'm frustrated that there seems to be a trend that in order to be a senior, you have to live and breathe design. i got into design because i like the simple aspect of working on a project and creating solutions that help people. i don't want to be managing stakeholders, or trying to justify my thinking all the time to opinionated people in the business. (i know this is an industry wide problem).   
i've actually been looking for other roles, but i'm wondering if i'm actually making the wrong decision which will impact my career, because my current manager and the culture is actually very healthy and great, and they're all willing to help me become a well-rounded senior. the roles currently out there i know won't have this level of psychological safety. 
i could go into consulting/freelance/agency, which means i stay being that designer where i'm taking briefs and delivering them on a project basis, but there seems to be a limit as to much how i can actually grow there, and i'm worried about my career aspects then if i stagnate at this point. 
do i just leave design altogether???

seeking guidance: navigating career uncertainty as a ux designer
hello fellow ux designers,
i'm reaching out to this community in search of some wisdom and guidance. i'm currently navigating a bit of a career crossroads and could really use your insights. here's a bit about my situation:
i'm 27 years old and have been immersed in the ux design world for three years now, specifically in a finance-focused startup. despite being based in spain, i've been fortunate to work remotely, enjoying the flexibility and the less stringent kpi-focused environment that my current company offers, albeit with a modest salary.
however, not all is smooth sailing. the startup has been around for a while but is now facing significant financial hurdles. the future seems uncertain, and i'm contemplating the stability of my position; it seems i might have only a few months left unless things take a positive turn.
this uncertainty has pushed me to consider preparing my portfolio and exploring new opportunities. yet, i'm met with two major roadblocks. firstly, there's a sense comfort in my current role. the freedom and the relaxed pace are aspects i genuinely value. secondly, i'm apprehensive about the job market. despite my three years of experience, i doubt whether i have amassed enough impactful use cases or the depth of experience required to curate a compelling portfolio that could open new doors.
i'm at a junction where i'm struggling to decide whether to cling to the hope that my current company will recover or to proactively step out into the uncertain job market, possibly before it's too late.
i would immensely appreciate any advice, insights, or recommendations you might have. how should one approach this dilemma? how can i bolster my portfolio with perceived limited experience? any thoughts or personal experiences in similar situations would be incredibly valuable.
thank you for taking the time to read and for any guidance you can provide.
warm regards,

with ux as a skill kind of dissolving, what direction would you go and why/why not?
i know the title is a little click baity, but here's my reasoning. i'm a ux manager that moved into that role from the it side. i don't have strong visual design skills (i'm very creative, just not digital designer), but i'm very knowledgeable in ux.  
the ux designer role has been moving to product designer or back to visual designer in the current market job descriptions (not the titles per say). (ux researcher isn't something i'm interested in atm.) because of this, i'm trying to expand my skills in order to land that next role (and it doesn't need to be a manager, i'm fine with senior or lead honestly).  
if you had to choose one specialization over the other, which would you choose?  
product or visual design?  
* product could require more documentation skills/knowledge, cpo or pm certs maybe, as well as portfolio that shows the product life cycle?
* design could require adobe certs/knowledge as well as very robust visual portfolio.
i'm leaning towards visual design, but i'm not sure that's a good move career wise. just looking for some advice and pros/cons.   
thanks!

anyone not jaded about their job?
i’m a mid level designer. been working since 2021. i have a job now that is fine. been there for 1.5 years.
the company itself is fully remote and has pretty great benefits and perks. i have job security. 
i’d say 50% of the time i like what i’m doing and the other 50% of the time i’m starting to feel frustrated, annoyed, and not fulfilled. 
i do well with freedom and autonomy, but my manager is very hands on. he also can be a bit belittling, since i’m the youngest on my team and earliest in my career. 
i am getting a little burnt out and the only way i see myself fixing that is taking time out of the “work day” to simply not work, and move slower. because otherwise i’m grinding from 9-5 with no breaks. 
any advice? if you’re a designer that’s happy enough with your job to never really quit the career, can you give reasons as to why?

text interview through discord?
anyone ever get invited to do an interview for a company through discord?
my gut is telling me it’s bs but i wasn’t sure if there were quirky companies out there doing this kind of thing. the company is i n the it industry.
update: i went ahead with an interview to scope things out. 100% a scam. they started talking about how i needed me to buy a flagship samsung phone to get reimbursed for the position.

so are we turning to crime at this point?
are we turning to crime at this point bc, it’s woofy out here going the straight and narrow with applying.
is anyone actually getting hired out there in reddit land or are we all winding up in the landfill?

lost my love for design
i’ve been at a job as the only product designer (senior) at a tech startup for almost 3 years.
i don’t feel inspired or motivated like i did when i worked with a group of designers at an agency.
the vibe is a bit figma monkey + do what the pm says + make it easy for the tech team.
they seem to really love me and the job pays great.
i am feeling anxious about not being good enough or knowing as much as other designers out there and that i won’t be able to find a better job.
sounds just like a big complaint but i’m on the verge of just flat out quitting without anything lined up. i need to have a soul again. and also wondering if i just hate working in tech. any advice much appreciated! haha

how much do you consider ux "just a job"?
i've been an engineer, albeit a creative one, for 20 years.  ever since i was an intern, i was scolded for "too many graphics" in engineering reports i'd create.  over the years, i made internal websites, loads of creative presentations, and even apps for internal use.  usually all were considered 'nice', and 'allowed' since they related to my primary work, engineering, but they weren't necessarily why i was hired.  i didn't realize until a project where i was assigned as a temporary person to fill a hole that we would not typically have an engineer fill that ux actually seemed like it may be the calling i missed.  i never fully embraced my creativity when i was looking for my path in life.  i thought i needed to go towards what was safe, and technical roles seemed to be that.  i didn't even consider creative work (other than application to circuit design) valid for a long time.  i am draw to ux, and now i'm almost ready to embrace it (and what a great job market to do it in too :/ ).
however, there's some other psychology afoot that i want to explore before making a mid-career jump with kids to support.  all of the times i did ux as an engineer, those made me stand out.  eventually, i applied design flow to things like dashboards and websites, and got good at making data comprehensible.  it gave me a sense that i had value.  i think i used my creative abilities to carve out a feeling of psychological safety for myself, whether actually true or not, amidst a sea of dark waters, where uncertainty about my worth and looming layoffs could threaten to sink my ship.  having the ability to apply myself to my own creative projects, for whatever reason, gave me a sense of hope, even though it wasn't what i was 'supposed' to be doing.  i can't explain it any better i'm afraid.
it seems like the ux crowd is generally more accepting than most.  everyone seems to have recognized a light in themselves that they are excited to share with the world through their role.  i guess my question is: when i jump to ux, how much is the work truly one's own, versus something you **have** to do?  i know this will be company dependent, and i realize as a company, a design project is a work assignment, and not optional.  but i also don't seem to see stories of ux designers who just "turn the crank" and don't put anything of themselves into their work.  how much does the environment ever become "just a job"?  is there a fair amount of autonomy?  does the entry level person share the same unique significance as a senior when it comes to owning the work as a part of themselves?  i guess i'm just trying to make sure my head isn't totally in the clouds by getting familiar with the realities of day to day ux, because i'd really like to believe that what i have is valuable and that i can contribute in a meaningful way, and that i'm making the right choice jumping into it, leaving a career behind where i make a fair amount, hoping it doesn't become "just a job" and me having lots of regret.
thanks for any advice.
&#x200b;

transitioning from ux to new role, but which one? pm, ba?
hello fellow designers!
i have 5 years of experience in the ux field as a designer and researcher. for the past 3 years, i have been involved in a project where, instead of building and designing complex applications, we focused on innovation. our task was to rapidly gather business requirements, build mvps, and verify hypotheses. i thoroughly enjoyed this approach, as it had a significant impact (not only financially) on the entire company.
however, over the past two years, the company has been constantly laying off employees, leaving me with almost nothing to do. this is a clear sign for me that i should seek new opportunities. the question now is, what role should i pursue? i am particularly interested in the strategic aspects - scoping, creating hypotheses, building business models, designing quick mvps for stakeholders, and verifying them with users.
do you have any ideas for which role i should apply, and how challenging the transition might be? alternatively, should i continue searching for a ux role that is more strategy-oriented?

as a web designer who also codes with 9+ years of experience, can i apply to ux positions?
i have been web designer for 9+ years at agencies. along the way i have learned to code as well, mostly front-end. i'm looking for another job, i feel like it's time to try something new. so far i have seen only 1 web designer vacancy, everything else is ux designer, sometimes design/ux engineer, product designer or service designer.
i am very interested in ux but i feel like an imposter since i don't have any hands-on experience with research and testing. i know the principles, i also aim to make my web designs user friendly and accessible but i am not sure if that's enough to apply for ux roles? should i apply to junior roles? i'm trying to follow some online courses, but time is very limited since i still have a full time job and i need to move out soon. other web designers here? it's hard to believe they all took a course to make the job switch.
design/ux engineer also sounds very interesting since i would love to keep on coding. are they generally better paid than ux designers?
some advice is very welcome!

4th round interview...
hi guys, i had a 4th round interview with a company last week tuesday. i've been going through the interview process with this company for about a month now. 
after the 3rd round (cultural fit) i thought i had it in the bag, only for a 4th round (another cultural fit with more team members) to be added to my calendar last week. 
it went really well, i liked the people, they seemed to like me, and i have no reason to think it didn't go well, however, as the days have ticked by, i've lost all optimism about this particular role, just because of the anxiety of waiting for an answer. i'm assuming the next response i get is either an offer letter or telling me they're not going forward with me. 
what is everyone's take on this? tomorrow is a week since my 4th round. is this a normal time frame? am i right for feeling less optimistic than i did before the 4th round interview? how many more rounds could there possibly be?
i'm not getting down on myself but i'd be lying if i said i'm not frustrated by how slow this is going and the anticipation is the worst part.
update: they responded to my follow up email. they are still interested in potentially bringing me on but are still meeting other candidates and are trying to accelerate the process as best they can.
i'm not banking on anything, but glad they at least responded and are keeping me updated. they asked me to keep them updated with the rest of my interviews, which i have one today and another on monday. i'm not going to hold out for the hope on this role.

ux designer role eliminated and demoted to it help desk. what now?
i’ve been a mid-level ux designer for a few years now and have been at my current company for the past two years as one of the in-house designers. due to some unforeseen circumstances ux is no longer deemed a necessity in our team and my role has been eliminated. i was given a few months to find an appropriate position for my skill set within the company but given the limited options, it was decided that i would be given the role of help desk specialist. 
i’m feeling rather defeated at not only the idea of having to placed in role that isn’t ideal but the overall burnout from ux in general. at this company, my research and designs are often referred to as “pretty pictures” and something that can be easily done by both product owners and the business unit. from my years of experience, this has been a common sentiment from many clients throughout and after spending so much time trying to prove that ux is something of value, i’m tired. 
the question of pivoting away from ux has been brought up in the past several times with many suggestions of project management or front-end development but what about roles that aren’t soul crushing corporate? of course the grass isn’t always greener on the other side but looking at alternatives is really keeping the depression at bay

is a hybrid manager/ic role feasible long term?
over the past few months my role has evolved from senior into a lead role that has one foot in team management plus being the go-between for leadership, and one foot in being an ic aimed at product impact. simply queried, i’m wondering if anyone has experience doing both successfully without feeling like they’re doing a subpar job in either column. if so, how’d you make it work, or what sort of org environment made it doable?

how to determine if a company values ux?
hey all, i’ll be starting the application process soon and i wanted to hear any creative ways you all have figured out how to gauge how much a company values ux. any thought-provoking questions, or things you would look out for? what advice would you give your former self during this process?
any/all advice welcome!

from ux lead to senior within the same organisation
i am currently working as a ux lead and have been considering returning to a senior role.
for context, i have been in my current role for two years, managing a team of seven people. although i used to enjoy my job, having a baby has made me rethink the stress, politics, and pressure of my work. i also feel that the challenges of a new baby at home have impacted my ability to manage and lead effectively, and i am concerned that i have been letting my team down.
i enjoy my current company culture and the strong design team we have, so i have been thinking about discussing with my practice lead the possibility of moving down the ladder. that would allow me to focus on what i am really good at, better work/life balance, and give my team the chance to have a new leader who will be able to set them up for success.  
i would like to know if anyone has done this before and what their experience was like. also, i am wondering if others would perceive this as a bad move. should i try finding a senior ux role elsewhere?

seeking recommendations for professional interview preparation in canada
hello everyone,
i have 9 years of experience in ux design based in taiwan; i have never worked in another country, so i'm looking for a resource to help me prepare for an interview.
i've recently moved from taiwan to canada and am currently on the hunt for my first product designer job here. as part of my preparation, i'm looking to train myself for interviews and am seeking any recommendations for professional interview practices or lessons.
i'm interested in any kind of resource that could help me enhance my interview skills, specifically tailored to the canadian job market. if anyone has experience with professional services, coaches, or online resources that specialize in interview preparation, i would greatly appreciate your insights.
thank you in advance for your help and recommendations!

stepping down from design leadership?
im about halfway through my career, have ascended to a principal role at a large org, and am finding the responsibilities of design leadership to be incredibly stressful & unenjoyable. i’m considering taking a step “down” to take on less of a mental load, enjoy design again, and have more time for my family and mental/physical health.
has anyone done this themselves? did you appreciate or regret your decision?

are you a design engineer?
i'm a designer with almost 10 years of experience, but i've been on the trajectory to become a more engineering-driven designer for the last 3 years at this point. i already contribute directly to code, write my own css, and dabble a bit with react (pretty familiar with next.js, tailwind css, etc etc.) and basic javascript, but still consider myself to be **miles** away from a real engineer (web, mostly). 
i've been feeling this growing anxiety that there's no more space in the international market for just "a designer". you've got to be a *design engineer,* contributing to the code with lots of code autonomy knowledge under your belt. i'm not sure if i'm freaking out because i'm already working on a niche company where competitors are at the cutting edge (like vercel, browser company, clerk, etc.),  and they're the ones potentially coining the design engineer career path, with plenty of people becoming *the* reference in the space (thus also adding a lot of bias to my perspective), or if my assessment has some level of general accuracy.
the thing is, i have *nothing* against becoming a design engineer. in fact, it's precisely what i've always wanted and gets me super excited. the reason for my anxiety is just that i feel like this needs to happen incredibly *fast* now. i guess the pandemic and all of these efficiency-seeking layoffs sort of made the market realize how much a designer that doesn't code is not that efficient.
i thought i had more time to learn coding, and being a designer first and coding second was a differentiator. now, i feel like not being a fully-fledged front-end dev *first* is a weakness. everybody knows how to do basic research and design uis. i guess i'm freaking out because i feel like i need to become an engineer in a quarter of the time, learning everything for yesterday.
does this resonate with any of you? do you consider yourself a design engineer already? if yes, how was your journey? do you have any tips for me?

a mixture of a role?
i’m kind of maybe looking for a new role. my current role seems more e-commerce manager than ux (as they originally stated). i’m actually adding new inventory, coding the shopify site with custom code, and doing ux research (very little).
i’ve noticed lately many e-commerce manager roles mix ux and ui in. is this common?
i’m just curious if with my current role would it be possible to just move up to a ux only role, mid or senior? or will i be stuck in e-commerce?

in a job interview do i use star technique for past jobs or only behavior questions?
i am a senior ux with 20 yrs in the industry. 
i am interviewing now and want to structure how i talk about my past work experience better.  i know about the star or similar interview answer technique for behavioral questions, but is that something i should use to describe my past job roles also? 
it is very hard to condense down some of my previous positions into just a few sentences since i have worked on 100's of projects that were all different with different teams, structures, methodologies, goals, tasks, etc.
i have taken a more generalized approach to summarizing my past positions but i have also gotten interview feedback 1x or 2x that i didn't actually talk about "the work". 
any advice is welcome as i have a very important interview on monday and we all know how bad the job market is now :(
thank you!

what other careers can a ux designer thrive in?
i see that currently landing a ux job as such a hassle! 
i thought to myself that maybe i could apply to jobs that could use other skill sets that i have garnered in the field and can be applicable elsewhere too! 
so, my question is, what other fields can i easily apply to? 
i need to land a job this month, some job, any job! 
thank you so much again!

is it normal for companies to ask a designer to complete an assignment before the first interview round?
i'm a senior product designer based in india, currently on the hunt for a new opportunity. recently, i've seen a trend where companies are asking for complete design assignments before even the first interview round—no introductory calls, no interaction with the hiring manager. i'm not a big fan of this approach. i believe there should be a mutual understanding before so much effort is invested. it's important to know about the role, the team, and whether we're a good fit for each other. 
is this the new normal?

hiring managers: does your organization scan for ai generated text in resumés, cover letters, case studies, etc?
basically the title. if you're a hiring manager, does it matter to you if a candidate uses generative ai?

apply to grad school as a full-time design lead
i recently came across an opportunity to apply for grad school. i'm currently a full-time design lead at a large corporation, and they provide educational assistance. i want to apply for master's of hci or design management. has anyone here gone through the same process and is willing to share your experience applying for grad school as a product designer? i'm interested in tips and tricks on making your application stand out and how you manage and showcase your work, as i haven't touched and updated my website in years.

career path
i have recently read the book " the path to senior product designer: an actionable growth plan for a ux design career" by artem dashinsky, and it suggests that the next steps on the career path for a senior ux designer is either towards "staff/principal" designer roles, or towards pm roles.   
i try to search for information to better understand where i should focus my attention, taking into consideration the recent events with layoffs and ai panic.  
what is your opinion on this, or if you have experience, please share.

is this a normal test task amount of work?
i applied for the job, and as a test task, they want me to design an entire education section for their service:
* home page (includes articles, courses, video lessons, literature)
* search results
* article itself
* course page
* lesson page
* landing page
doesn't it seem like too much work for an unpaid test task?

hiring managers in europe! current situation with uxers relocation?
hello fellow uxers,
i am a mid ux designer with 2 years of experience and i work in switzerland (zürich) at the moment. unfortunately, my permit will very soon expired, therefore, i am looking into a possibility to move to another european country. 
as i speak a bit of german (b1) i first looking into germany but i also quite interested in moving to scandinavian countries (have been almost everywhere in scandinavia, love the culture and snow:) ). my real "curse" nowadays is that i am a proud owner of 3d country citizenship, which automatically puts me down in the list of candidates, because it requires some justification towards authorities and also visa support (even though i don't need relocation support). however, the legislation, the rules and the demand for ux roles differ from country to country. there are still successful examples out there, so never say never, however, i would like to get some inputs from the hiring side on how hard is it now and maybe some tips and tricks on the application process.
any valuable feedback is highly appreciated! 
thanks a lot in advance.

aws ux design interview
i have my portfolio round scheduled with aws for a senior ux designer position. what should i keep in mind while creating the presentation? what should i highlight in my journey?
i have 10 years product design experience ranging from b2b design to leading products.
any pointers would be appreciated

what should i expect or prep for these days for a 60 minute design exercise?
i'm looking at round 3 of 4 for a new role. it's a 60 minute design exercise with half hour discussion after. at a software design consulting firm.
should i expect a generic exercise like the classic recipe timer? i know people want to see thibking. where's the swthinking. concepts? sketches and wires? tasty design? prototyping? 
what got you the job on one of these or what made you pick a designer based on one?

what are hiring managers looking for in cover letters?
i used to be of the camp that cover letters weren’t necessary for designers due to our portfolio kind of filling that void. but due to the nature of the current job market, i figure anything that could strengthen your application should be done. can any hms out there share insight into what they want to see in a cover letter from design candidates, specifically ones with 5+ years of experience?
edit: for those who are wondering what the answer is, it seems completely dependent on the person getting your application.

ai development industry startup, would you join, or are you working in this industry?
i'm currently working at an old agency, my pay isn't so great and have been looking into ai related jobs. luckily i'm at a final interview stage but the thing is, i just don't know how stable / unstable the job will be. the company's 1.5 years old with 20 employees, their culture seem fine but for someone who's been slaving away for a company that's 30+ years old with hundreds of employees.. i have to say it is daunting.
what the company does is something like this:
====================================================
**ai development**, specifically focusing on a type of ai called **large language models (llms)**.
imagine llms as super-powered language learners. they can read massive amounts of text data, but they still need some help understanding the nuances of human language. that's where these companies come in. they act like tutors for llms, using human knowledge to make them smarter.
* **industry:** ai development
* their job**:**  
* **finding experts:**  they recruit people who are really good at specific things, like doctors or lawyers.
* **data labeling:**  these experts help categorize information, like labeling a picture of a cat as a "cat"  to teach the llm what it's looking at.
* **training llms:**  with this labeled data, the companies train llms to be better at understanding and using language.
* **specialization:**  some companies can even tailor these llms to specific fields, like medicine, making them even more helpful.
so these companies are like behind-the-scenes coaches, helping ai become more intelligent and useful by leveraging human expertise.
companies i think are similar in this industry:  
* labelbox ([https://labelbox.com/](https://labelbox.com/)): provides tools and services for data labeling and annotation, which is crucial for training llms. they cater to businesses of all sizes.
* lexion ([https://lexai.co/en](https://lexai.co/en)): lexion offers human-in-the-loop training data creation for llms, with a focus on building custom datasets for specific tasks.
* traindata ([https://trainingdata.pro/](https://trainingdata.pro/)): specializes in building high-quality training data for ai applications, including llms. they source data from a global network of contributors.
* [sky.garden](https://sky.garden) ([https://www.ai-alt.com/sky-garden.html](https://www.ai-alt.com/sky-garden.html)): focuses on building custom datasets for ai models, leveraging human expertise to ensure data quality and relevance. they also offer data labeling tools.
* arrikto ([https://www.arrikto.com/](https://www.arrikto.com/)): works on building human-assisted ai solutions, including data labeling and fine-tuning llms for specific tasks. they have a focus on the healthcare industry.
=======================================
so what do you think? if you were me, would you join the relatively quite new startup in a, sort of hot industry? if you already have, how's that going for you? (even if it's not an ai industry, if you ever joined a startup that's new)
&#x200b;

the sad condition of the ux market in europe in 2024
hello, i'm a ux designer based in portugal. i've observed that the start of 2024, not only in portugal but also across western europe, appears to be more challenging compared to the beginning of 2023. there are notably fewer job openings, heightened competition, and despite inflation, salaries are decreasing rather than increasing. moreover, the salary gap between ux designers and graphic designers is narrowing. i find myself somewhat disheartened by the current state of the ux market; there seems to be little stability or job security in our field. the uncertain economic conditions mean that our positions could be at risk at any time, with few alternative roles to pursue. how does the ux market fare in your country in europe?

what should i expect for a final interview for a product designer role?
\*i put "senior careers" flair, but i wouldn't call myself a senior designer yet. i've got 3.5 years of experience.
hi all! looking for some tips from senior designers with interview experiences.
i've been in an interview process of one startup, and now i have one more left to go: a final interview with a founder.
this wasn't planned before, so i'm guessing the company cannot decide on a candidate yet, and now a founder wants to involve to make the decision. i'm not sure what to expect though. i'm pretty nervous as i was never in the final stage :p
so far i've done 5 interview sessions - a case study presentation, and interviews with design lead, product manager, head of product and hr. the company has 30-50 employees if this is any relevant.
as it's with a founder, i imagine he wants to check who i am in general, work ethics and character and such... and interest/knowledge in the industry. hm! anyone had a bit of similar experience before? any tips would be immensely helpful. thanks a lot!!
update:   
thank you so much for the amazing comments, in return i'd like to share how it was. it was short, and the chillest one so far with easy questions. i'm sharing the questions here, for the fellow designers who might be in a similar situation:  
- tell me something that's not on your cv   
- why do you want this job?   
- which project were you the most obsessed with?   
- what do you expect in terms of work culture?   
i didn't really have to prep so much in the end haha. during the q&a time, i asked about product strategies and what he values the most in the design. now i'm finally excited to not have any interview for a while, regardless of the result!

product design / engineer
so i’m currently a senior product designer and i’ve been thinking about expanding my skills into code. i’d really like to better understand fe, and most of all have the ability to bring my ideas to life beyond figma assets. 
does anyone have experience making this move into what i’m seeing people call a ‘design engineer’, and what is the best language to start with? basic html / css and move from there?