what is your current design review process for catching ui and experience bugs and fixes needed?
i've been in this industry for almost 10 years now and have worked with so many over seas development teams, and in house dev team and have yet to find a great solution for this process.   
usually it is reviewing the designs in a staging environment, taking screen shots, adding them into figma, google sheets, or jira tickets and then marking what needs to be changed and updated. i then share those documents with developers and other relevant stakeholders. this obviously lead to miscommunication and alot of back and forth, but even having worked at numerous companies i haven't been on a team that has this ironed out well.  
i'm curious what processes others are following during their design qa process? are there any tools you're using to help.

has ux process made you an overthinker when it comes to personal projects?
so, prior to learning ux i used to watch figma tutorials and basic videos on design. then i would design applications and stuff for fun. some of them were outright bad and silly. but others were good too. and the most important thing is that i used to actually start things and try to finish them. 
but after getting deeper into ux, especially after interning as ux researcher for 3 months where they no decision was allowed to be made without proper research and validation. from choosing what name should be for a feature to the flow of the feature and everything in between. everything had to be in accordance to research insights by talking to users.
this had huge impact on me. after the internship i was finding it difficult to design any personal projects. i used to be like i don’t have access to the potential users of this application which would solve xyz problem etc. i couldn’t make decisions anymore. 
at my current job, they aren’t research focused at all. it’s mostly making accessible and clean ux but it’s not based on research. although we do look at what competitors do. but it’s all done in 1 day or so. mostly based on assumptions. this is a very different from the approach i was exposed to. 
the problem at my current company is that we are also a dev agency. sometimes clients of design and dev service. and the devs here mostly say nothing is feasible etc. so everytime i design something i am thinking if this would be feasible or not. and all my designs end up looking extremely basic which clients dislike. 
the god level ui person at company never thinks about developers, using colors from the design system etc and ends up creating ui which clients absolutely love. 
i wish i could reach that level too. but i can never work without guidance (since i don’t know how to make decisions: from research point of view as well as design). 
anyone had similar issues? any advice on how i can stop this

help bots, coversational design & implementation
i often do not use bots, as my topics rarely seem to match the answer database. it is maddening. in this case:
1. trusty google search (not)
* the first search result for vail snow school is a 2018 pdf.
* the second result for vail snow school is a 504 error.
2. ok, bot, let us try you....
* the image shows the disaster.
* i also asked for "snow school information" with the same results.
[\\"helpful\\" bot interaction \(heavy sarcasm\)](https://preview.redd.it/jopntc2ejtnd1.png?width=784&format=png&auto=webp&s=1b6991ab707754c77205d2f5487f051e02849bff)
the main issue for users is that we do not know the context and depth of the bot. the main issue for businesses is the hope bots reduce churn and lower costs in the long term as no human is needed to answer repeated queries (an advanced faq, so to speak, with context sensitivity.) 
when the interaction lacks information retrieval, it infuriates me as a user and ux professional.
now, stating the bot context--things it can effectively answer-- partially defeats the purpose of 'magical interaction.' what other improvements can be made beyond "tack a llm to it"?
if you work in this space, what is your company doing? what hit rate do they aim for?  (as in ratio of successful answers/total questions)

repost from pm sub - tracking changes to design and development
hi friends. 
i tried crossposting this, but it wasn't an option that was available. copying/pasting from the r/productmanagement in hopes of gleaning more insight and a perspective more akin to my own as a sr pd.
###
&gt;*hi folks. i'm a product designer, so i'm perhaps approaching this question with a different perspective.*
&gt;*i work for a startup that's been through several layoffs in the last 12 months and am the sole designer. i have been...and am okay with...helping pick up the pieces and wear different hats where it makes sense and when i have time/bandwidth, as i believe you have to respect peoples' roles, but help where needed, making sure not to burn yourself out.*
&gt;*that said, we have one product owner/product manager, and they consistently are moving the goalpost. we have a very loose prd for one project in particular, with no features or details fully fleshed out. it reads like we're throwing spaghetti at the wall.*
&gt;*this person has changed acceptance criteria on the fly during meetings, and we now record those meetings so that developers and i have an artifact to reference. changes happen in backchannels, and nothing is added to the prd or even jira; everything lives in people's heads or on slack. i often stumble across changes that happened after seeing demos, while no one documented the change or told me about it...all the while asking, "why haven't the designs been updated?" i follow up with this person almost daily with the po, and rarely do they give me a synopsis. they know i will follow up with developers and assume i will hear from each of them about any changes that have been implemented.*
&gt;*it's all around a difficult situation, but i cannot help but feel like the po/pm should be documenting shifts to the strategy, changes in the acceptance criteria or feature set, and also respecting that they are breaking ux that had been decided upon weeks before - not to mention they are constantly breaking ui paradigms and making the platform inconsistent and inaccessible.*
&gt;*lastly, we're continuing to plan the next phase of work, moving at a rapid pace when we still need to catch up on a phase that was too big to begin with.*
&gt;*am i crazy? are my expectations too high? how could we be tracking these changes and who should own that? how can i draw boundaries and hold them?*
&gt;*any advice or feedback is appreciated! i learn a lot from this sub and i appreciate you guys!*
&gt;

have you noticed gradual  “enshittification” of a product you worked on?
i think enshittification goes hand in hand with dark ux patterns, but how does this actually take place within a company/product lifecycle? sometimes the “balancing user needs with business requirements” mantra seems to be a cover for shady practices because there’s no way user research data shows bogus fees in say, food delivery apps is not a major pain point.

i wanted to tell you guys something
just wanted to tell you how you guys are fn scumbags for creating sites that manipulate people into having a terrible day because they cant easily cancel a service or spend money they dont have to spend and you guys do it en masse. i just want to say that is despicable behavior and you are cowards and scumbag pos
take care, i hope you rot in hell

spotify ux
is it confusing as hell for anyone else? they must be working on a redesign.

are subscription ux design services really effective? i came across this take on linkedin.
https://i.redd.it/djp0hp086wmd1.jpeg

no head of product and i don’t know how to decide what features should be worked on next
i work for a startup and the head of product position was just removed. i was their report and now will be reporting to head of marketing. they apparently will be giving the final say on what features should be designed in the app for releases but really? this feels like a terrible idea and i don’t know how i can salvage this position and help myself be the one to confidently decide on what features to try and pitch shipping.
are doing user interviews the best way to identify pain points? who should i ask and how will i decide what features to pitch to the head of marketing to design?
fwiw: i’m a 7+ year experience designer with mostly agency experience now first role in house at a startup, and now no head of product to guide designs

ux heads of department with no background
i keep working for heads of departments that have no strategy for the department. in fact no background or experience. 
met a head of department looking for ui/ux designer to drive finding the value of ux. not drive their strategy, but find the value of ux for the business.
isn't that the head of departments role?  seems very convenient to become head of ux with none of the skills then just hire someone to show the value of your role and department.

leaving the job due to uninspiring environment?
have you done leaving your job because you are working with people who are not aligned with your skill level? a scenario is working with environment where mostly you are the only senior in terms of experience and you feel that you also need to improve other areas especially in leadership but you are with bunch of people that is not inspiring to work with.
how do you keep yourself inspired when the environment is lacking to boost your creativity?

i removed the ux from ux design, and suddenly the silos disappeared. have you tried it before?
one of the most successful projects i have ever worked on happened in a team of three. it was a team put together by a very experienced tech lead turned business development person, and we were tasked to do something that an expensive consultancy had just have failed to deliver on after a years, so of course we had less time and budget to do the same thing.
the most interesting thing about the project was that there were two seasoned developers who had very little front end experience, and knew nothing about ux design. so i never tried to explain what it was to them and never used it in a sentence. we were all problem solvers, and we applied our skills and knowledge to solve everything that came up in the project. 
we delivered the proof-of-concept that the client asked for and some more, and the two developers were hired to complete the job while i finished up because all the key design problems were solved, and the developers understood enough about how i solved problems that they were able to tackle the rest on their own.
it turns out that sometimes ux gets in the way of ux design. and so i dropped it and just designed solutions to problems.
have you ever tried something like that before? did it work? why and why not?
p.s. i wrote a medium article about this in 2015. sadly software delivery projects are still run as badly as the days before the agile manifesto was written…

ux in a sales-driven company (b2b)
so i've come to the realization that we've made the full transition to being sales-driven. it's happened slowly over time, but with no real head of product, head of design not bothering to go to design reviews etc. i think it's pretty obvious.
doom and gloom aside, as a ux writer looking to keep my job for a while before the company decides we can get away with a couple of designers for the whole company and that's about it, what can i do? as in, what kind of projects and initiatives should i be looking at?
i found [this article](https://www.userjourneys.com/blog/ux-in-sales-led-organisations/) which gives some very basic ideas, but doesn't give any examples of how to go about doing any of it. for example "advocate for long-term thinking". that's easier said than done when the company is looking towards the sales team to close deals.
90%+ of what we build are customer requests. but there's no validation. no thinking. no research or testing. we had one request from a well-known brand just yesterday. i pointed out that this seemingly small feature will make another part of our product look terrible/useless. the pm acknowleged this, agreed with me, and then just moved on. because this new customer is paying for this new feature, right?
there's no, "wait a minute, let's stop and think about how to build this for the customer but not ruin our exisiting features at the same time".
so what can i do? i will try and build up relations with the sales team and solution architects to see if we can get a better feedback loop. but as a ux writer, there's little i'll be able to influence. i've once blocked a project that made no sense at all, but it's rare.
any articles, books, videos, advice welcome.

ux managers:  what are your best practices for fully remote design teams?
this one is for design managers or team leads.
for most of my career, i've run design in a design studio.  it was a physical place with designs printed out and stuck to foam core on the walls.  every morning started with rounds, where designers showed their work.  then we would do a 90 or 120 minute co-design session, where new problems were brought to the team to do the initial discovery or design work together, and a highly interactive session.  this was using the whiteboard, sticky notes, markers & paper, etc.  people did their individual work until late in the afternoon, when we would have another session, usually focused on critique.  in the in-between times, people would walk around the studio, check out the work on the boards, maybe leave notes or annotations, update their own boards with new work, etc.
when covid came, this fell apart.  everyone went remote.  and post-covid, the teams are too spread out to ever meet in person.  many companies have downsized office space so they don't even have anything like a design studio even if people are in the office.
in my opinion, this has been very bad for design.  actual design work is down.  design impact is down.  designer roi seems low to the businesses.  more and more designer time is spent on production work.  the "double diamond" of design has become flattened - sometimes down to a straight line from what a pm says directly to a figma file.
i see the biggest impact in the two main skills of design - exploration and critique.  exploration just isn't as good on your own as with a team.  you explore more avenues, consider more variables, and generally just get better solutions with more people contributing.  and critique has really suffered.  we still do critique, but now people work on something for days before sharing and only want to share things that are "ready".  by that time, it really feels bad for the designer to have people tell them everything that is wrong, and it requires a lot of redoing of work.  also, critique requires a lot of trust in the team.  it is very difficult to establish that kind of trust, where i can tell you anything bad about your design and you will know that it is about the work and not you, when everyone is just a box in a video window.
that said - i don't see us going back to the office anytime soon.  
so what have you all done to help get better design out of your remote teams?

overwhelmed and panicking as a new solo designer, looking for guidance on how and where to begin
i recently joined a small startup as a founding designer, and i have been overwhelmed by everything that is going on and even considered quitting out of sheer panic.
it's a complex b2b product and some parts have been designed by a contract designer and other parts have been improvised by engineers. there is so much to learn and there are so many requests coming in that i am finding it very difficult to focus on what to do. 
the product is a mess with 15 navigation items and lots of inconsistencies, and i am being asked to think about new features while i haven't even grasped the entire system and how it works. there are no product managers and marketing is asking me to refresh the marketing website and the brand and give them illustrations for ads and social media!! the only thing stopping me from quitting is the rent i have to pay.
someone recommended the ux team of one book, but that is like 11 years old but maybe it is still relevant?
what would you do if you were in my shoes?  
what can i read or watch to get a handle on the situation?

what do your pms actually do?
context: i am currently in a project developing software for a b2b corp client who wants an app so that workers can report and track their fleet, maintenance etc. 
we are a team of 10, 1 product designer, 1 pm and devs. the pm books dailies, sprint planning/review a nd sort of leads the meetings. that’s it. everything else has to be self managed. we create tasks, us, backlogs, come up
with everything etc.. there are no timelines, project boundaries, etc.. 
i feel like there’s a lot more that should be done so both design and development can work within a clearer structure and deliver better results.. it all feels. lot like guess work on a daily basis. is this the norm? what are your experiences like? (its my second time working in agile, and the first one was in a big team with multiple pms. sprints were very clear and really organised)

one person on the brand team keeps complaining about me from work
i'm working at a company where previously brand got to make all the decisions and i am the first leader being hired into this ux space. i have been at this company for 6 months and i've talked about it with my manager in two one-on-ones, most recently today.
based on the feedback, i've been able to narrow it down to one person on the brand team. i'm having a really hard time with the fact that i work with a lot of people and only one person is complaining about me and it's taking up space in my one-on-ones and making me feel insecure. 
meanwhile, this person has never once attempted to talk to me one-on-one. they just go straight to my boss and say that i am combative and i'm not willing to problem solve etc etc. how can you say that when i've had less than 10 interactions with you in 6 months? if you've never once talked me one-on-one about any of your concerns? 
i kind of just need to vent. and lick my wounds. and then go back and try to have some one-on-ones with them. however, this feedback was supposed to be anonymous so i'm not even sure how to initiate a 1x1. 
any advice? as a leader, i kind of feel like if my people work with a whole bunch of people and only one person they're having issues with, i might talk to them about it, but i would never think it was a big deal. that being said, my boss specifically said this was not a performance issue and they wanted to talk to me before it ever came that and blah blah blah and i might be too sensitive to the feedback. 
my biggest read on the situation is that brand is used to having control and is having difficult y giving up control. and this person just wants to get their way. in my experience, if you're having issues with somebody, you go talk to them before escalating to their boss. if you're escalating to their boss, you're just trying to get them in trouble. 
one friend say well. maybe they're just too scared to talk to you. i'm like, but they're not too scared to talk to me but they're willing to talk to my boss and get me in trouble? that does not net out in my mental math. you're either shy and you're going to keep it in or you want to say something then come and say it to my face. i'm really big on in a court of law you get to face your accuser and not a fan of anonymous feedback.

moving from team lead that does hands on work towards less hands on role - advice?
i have substantial number of design team lead experience years under my belt, but i have always been in such teams that i also do some of the hands on work myself.
now i need to move to a more managerial role in my current company and i'm wondering how to prepare myself. i do not want to become a micromanager or try to still do too many things. the latter is something i tend to do.

mind dump on state of ux in 2024
combination of everything i’ve absorbed in this sub and my own experiences. just wondering if anyone else can relate to these thoughts after being in this sub for a while 
job market
- apparently terrible
- i would argue that people with real experience who do more strategic work with product are still going to find a place in orgs, even if it’s not as easy as before. i feel people look for more depth of thinking now. candidates who don’t showcase this well are suffering. even if they do have the skill, if it’s not being displayed… that’s where i think it’s a big struggle
- curious to know what others think of this 
“ux is not for me/i hate my job”
- seeing a lot of this sentiment. ux in 2024 is more about creating alignment? yes this maybe means presenting lots of vision work to stakeholders to have little design expertise but still offer design critique. i think this has to be considered part of the job. same goes for brainstorming with eng, coming up with short term solutions that prioritize the business and not the user, etc etc. i know it hurts 😅 but if you consider it part of the job it helps. esp if the production cycles are long.  
risks/changes (and also opportunity!)
ai
- risk: lots of tech rushing to implement with minimal thought and minimal precedent on best practices 
- opportunity: steering direction and goals in a nacent field if you’re working on this. or, if you freelance, this is a new way to market yourself - by showing how you design ai integrated features
-risk: people using ai to generate designs 
- opportunity: specialize in things a generalized ai w ouldn’t be able to solve 
job seeking:
- i made a post on doing this a while ago, i wonder how it’s going now? 
- happy to see so many people pushing back on outrageous requests. we make the market.
long term career opportunity 
- still a concern for me. 5 yoe. leadership opportunities seem narrow. pivoting to product management or growing another skill set is something on my mind that makes me think there’s more long term potential.
any others relate?

managing figma permissions in an agency
does anyone knows how to handle this efficiently? i'm currently a designer at an agency where we are working with lots of clientes. the problem is that we don't have any process or rules on how to handle permissions in figma, which leads to view requests coming in from users you don't really know and if you accept, they end up leaving comments that are usually outside scope. 
i feel this is an issue we need to solve internally because it's very specific on how we work but i was wondering if anyone had a similar situation and how you solved it.

my recent interview experiences as a sr designer: learning, growing, and moving forward
recently, i went through interviews with two different companies, and i had very different experiences with each.
first, i’ll be honest: i totally dropped the ball in the first one. i wasn’t prepared, and the rejection after the initial call was entirely on me. i own that. it was a great company and one where i believe i could have been a strong fit, but this was a learning moment for me. preparation is key, and i fumbled, oh well it happens. lesson learned.
now, for the second interview, i came prepared. i reviewed, practiced answering questions, and felt confident going in. i got along well with the team, i thought i nailed the behavior interview with pms and the case study with designers. overall, i was proud of how i performed. but despite all that, i still got rejected.
guess what, i’m not down about it. if anything, i’m even more excited about continuing to pursue what i love and improving on what i have done. it's kinda like a user interview... but not. here’s what i took away from these experiences:
1.	just be yourself: don’t try to be someone you’re not in interviews. authenticity is important, and the right company will appreciate that.
2.	rejections are part of the process: it’s okay if things don’t work out; there are always more opportunities. i know i’ll find the right fit, and i’m keeping my head up.
3.	always be prepared: make sure to do your homework. use methods like the star technique and always refine your case studies. continually improving will help you stand out.
i know that the right opportunity is out there for me, and i’m determined to find it.
how do you guys handle interview rejections? would love to hear any tips or similar stories!

does networking really work for landing a job?
hey all,
i'm just curious if networking really helps you land on a job.
i haven't done networking seriously, only tried a few times and just decided to apply jobs and have been working several years switching companies to companies with no problem.
during my very first job hunting, i tried to do networking but it didn't really work out.
one thing i realized is the networking which i was doing isn't really networking, it was more about referral soliciting or requesting someone to open a backdoor or shortcut. since networking is bascially reciprocal but when i did networking as a new grad, i couldn't bring any value but just asking someone to give me a favor. 
i still see many are doing referral soliciting under the name of networking and it makes me think maybe i should have done that instead of just applying jobs.
i'm not saying networking will never help you land on a job but do yall think it's more efficient way than just applying jobs from job board? ideally you can do both but networking requires way more time and efforts so you can't really do both, if you network-focused, you might not be able to apply many.
what do yall think?

the exit process
new rule. it should take a company exactly as long to lay you off as it did to hire you. 
if your hiring process took two months, six interviews, a group review, and a final meeting with the ceo… guess what, that’s the new exit process as well.

has anyone successfully transitioned into another career track?
with the oversaturation in the field i’m thinking of future proofing my skills. i’m in a stable job for now but i want to make sure i’m set for the future in case anything happens.
i have experience in wordpress development and would not be opposed to learning more code. but i’m open to any ideas!

offered $40 an hour for 1 year contract at spotify
wtf is wrong with the market right now. 
i have 3-4 years experience (and in consulting)(and in a demanding market).
why people have the audacity to offer so low a salary i'd love to know. 
this is great for someone right out of college, but would they offer this job to someone right out of college?! no.

question for the ux freelancers/contractors with long-term contracts!
my goal is to get long-term contract clients, like those that have a single project that may last 1 or 2 years. my question is: how is the work dynamic in these cases? do they give you tasks every month to complete and they pay you based on what you did? or do they pay a set amount every month, similar to a salary.   
please, only people who have had long-term clients or know someone who has.

business value of ux
good day,
since the market is quite challenging for the time i have been doing some private investigation into what the business value is for ux. with the hopes to help show business leaders the value of ux design. i think i have discovered something that at least could be useful in the context of mid sized companies looking to expand.
my hypothesis requires some background which i will share.
there is a theory called **the diffusion of innovation**, it basically says that people can be divided into groups for when they will adapt to new ideas. most of you probably already heard about early adopters, this is one of the groups from this theory.
the early adopters or especially innovators prioritize the **performance of the technology**, they would believe if the technology simply outshines in amount of functionality or how well the technology perform we will win over the competition.
the thing is, the majority of your potential customers would prioritize very differently, for them the **convenience of the solution** is far more important. they are harder to convince.
most often founders belong to the innovators and early adopters groups, they are in the forefront of technology, watching the latest breakthroughs trying to find an opportunity. of course they will priorotize and focus on the technology primarily, which is fine.
but to reach wide market success you will have to make the solution convenient to attract the majority. and what better way to do so by utilizing ux professionals.
these days the majority understands that if the usability is bad its not their fault for not reading the manual, its the company. and will look for alternatives that meet their need. what happened was that in the early days the innovators and early adopters was the ones to design for because they drove the market. but these days the market is dominated by the more conservative majority that look for products that is easy to use and match their needs.
sure early adopters still play a role to convince the majority but they are still the minority. so you want to start out by reaching the early adopters to eventually reach the majority. and to do that you will have to utilize ux professionals.
this hypothesis would also explain the gap between ux designers and business leaders, since the founders value the technology primarily and things like ui or usability secondarily, they would be harder to convince about the importance of improving things like usability.
remember the founders are themselves early adopters and innovators, they can live with a hard to navigate interface as long as the technology is better, but according to the diffusion of innovation theory i would say this is a lost opportunity to reach a wider market and companies like apples i would argue proves that.
please share your thoughts and experiences.
edit: removed the statement, as chris points out there are a lot more reasons out there to succeed in reaching the majority of customers.
[ image from the donald norman article \\"growing up: moving from technology- centered to human-centered products\\"](https://preview.redd.it/pniyl4izrymd1.png?width=1472&format=png&auto=webp&s=67866d81aae5bcf64e57632effa15623b9e85132)

what do you do if you feel like you don’t believe in the product you’re working on anymore?
question is in the title 😁

what do you think happens to the ux field, if nasdaq crashes big time?
let's be speculative. if nasdaq crashes big time, the consequences will be seen in tech companies around the world as tightening demands for profitability, as well as tightening terms for getting financing for the company.
ux is a luxury/ nice to have type of a part of production chain within the production of digital services and apps. so ux takes a hit everytime the economy tanks and the companies have to cut their spending.
but, if tech market would crash now or even in the coming half year, it would be exceptional as the tech job market is already horrible. finding a ux job is already very difficult, and executives are already treating ux as necessary evil, so the budgets have already been cut down and the job is in many places nothing more than cutting corners.
if a big crash happens ( i sure hope it doesn't), how will ux industry look after that?

what is the interview process for contract roles?
hi all!
looking for advice since i'm considering leaving my current full time job and contracting while i find something permanent  (working in govtech is my long term goal). 
my current situation is unsustainable. we have new leadership and working there is no longer good for my mental health. all of my pto and vacation requests are being denied and i'm expected to be available 24-7. also getting yelled at is now the norm so i'm ready to leave asap. 
how fast are the interview processes for contracting roles? i've interviewed for 3 ft roles, multiple rounds that took weeks and months, but nothing came of them. what is the fastest way to leave this situation in your opinion? i have 3 years of product design experience.

sharing my project safely during a big interview?
i'm a fairly junior designer, \~2 yoe. i currently work full time as a product designer at a semi functioning start up. different industry than where i'm currently applying to jobs at the moment.
i've developed an interesting product over the last 10 months on my own time, with hundreds of screens, user flows, and interactions, and have already built (on figma) and tested an mvp twice with around two dozen participants. while i'm still refining and adding to the product, i recently received an interview opportunity with a fortune 500 company that operates in the same industry for which this product is designed. although the company has not explored this specific niche yet, they have the resources and existing product lines that could allow them to do so.
given the potential overlap, how can i effectively showcase this project and discuss its details without risking the idea being appropriated? this is definitely one of my most robust and complicated works i've done so far with just myself. prototyping, user research, custom illustrations, a cohesive design system, ia, etc. i can just choose to not discuss it but i think it would be a great opportunity to show my skills and dedication.
what to do?

any of you in the automotive ux/ui space?
this is an area i'd like to ultimately be in as a new designer. this isn't necessarily 'please advise me as a new designer', i want to know how you got into it and what it's like to design for cars, vehicles, etc. 
i'm super fascinated by the touchscreens in cars. i don't like most of them, and i'm thinking of designing a case study. would love to hear your experiences and what problem spaces car companies actually dwell on. 
why they are the way they are, what you think personally, and any cool innovations? 
i think tactile is going to make a come back.

design limitations
i work for a government agency, and i'm having to deal with extreme limitations when it comes to the scope and extent which i can redesign features.
for context, the current platform they have is horrible and i was hired to help redesign their online services. but i'm finding that i'm getting push-back to make some fundamental changes that would enhance usability/ux as it is "out of scope."
i understand working with limitations but we are making huge changes to a central feature of the platform yet i'm not allowed to touch anything before or after what happens in that journey, despite it being fundamentally broken.
i'm just lost at this point, i'm not high enough on the payscale to dictate product roadmap but i'm concerned that my designs are not holistic and sustainable in the long term.
has anyone been in this situation? i feel uneasy about some of my design decisions and don't know what to do.

what's the best ux for visiting a verification link in an email?
when a user signs up for our website we send an email with a verification link.
is it possible to make this verification link always be a clickable hyperlink in 100% of email clients? if that is possible then it would be the best ux, but i assume that's not possible.
so what should we do? is the best possible ux simply to put something below the link that says "if you can't click the link then copy and paste it into your browser"?
the issue i see with copy and paste is that some users don't know how to do that.
what is the best possible ux for this problem?

amount of behance projects on good reads redesign!
at least a hundred projects on good reads redesign. few of them are very well researched and ideated. while some are just aesthetic overhaul.
if someone wants to work on goodreads redesign they can extract so much research from these projects to begin with.
what are your thoughts on such a phenomenon? please share your views.

design interviews
has anyone observed shorter attention spans for portfolio reviews? i'm currently interviewing high-level ic's and i find it hard to sit through a 30 minute portfolio presentation. i also can't presume that high-level ic's are good story tellers.

what sets a growth designer apart from a ux/product designer?
same

anyone here designing for a salesforce-based app?
there are multiple limiting aspects when working with sf. they have their design system but it's not the best out there, and also since clients "install" the app in their own sf environments we don't have a way of monitoring their usage to get valuable data. on top of that, they can add their own fields, columns, and other stuff to adapt the product to their own workflows, making updating harder as well. any similar experiences?

too much responsibility and not enough support.
i’m a senior designer for a small saas company. the company has a dev team, but no strong front end devs. everything implemented by the dev team is like the bare minimum. we’ve fought for months to get them to follow our design system so ui checks don’t last for weeks. i’m not complaining, jobs are scarce. but it is annoying to deal with and the nonstop back and forth with the dev team is exhausting. 
here’s my current issue: our product is not responsive which is super frustrating. i had experience helping to design the grid library for designers at my last job, so i volunteered to lead the initiative. however i had front end devs there to do their side of it. i’ve done hours of research, incorporated material design guidelines, internal user data, ai, read parts of a book on going responsive, and used multiple legitimate online sources to determine the breakpoints and rules. the problem is i don’t feel confident in it because i’m not a developer. it’s making me super nervous that i’m almost to the point of handoff and the devs are still asking questions about how the breakpoints work and i don’t have the dev knowledge to break it down to them. what should i do? tell my manager i’m not confident in my findings after hours of research, countless meetings with the greater design and dev teams, and curating this entire thing for months now? our company cannot hire front end devs to figure this out, they honestly seem pretty lazy, and i feel in over my head although i am pretty confident in what i’ve defined for them. thank you.

what questions would you ask of a prospective engineering team lead?
just found out from the engineering manager that i’m going to be involved in the interview process for an engineering lead. this is a person who will be leading a team that is part of a new sdlc that we’re spinning up, and i’m helping build.
any ideas for questions you’d ask as a ux designer interviewing such a candidate?

what’s your go-to method for ensuring that your ui designs are implemented exactly as intended by developers?
i’ve noticed discrepancies can happen during the handoff, and i’m curious how others maintain design integrity throughout the development process.

don't fall for it: tceq reposting the same ux job to farm ideas
save yourself the trouble and don't give free work to these people. i interviewed with them a while ago. on the second interview stage, they give you a link to a page of their website and ask you how would you improve it and to think out loud as you review it. they even asked me what research method i would use for their page, which is funny because i have absolutely no context as to what previous research they have or if there's any data i can reference, or what objective is the research about. i asked them if they have any data or are we just assuming there is no data. they didn't respond. so, i went with assuming they didn't have any data and gave research ideas.
i got a generic rejection letter a week later even after meeting 100% the criteria. they keep reposting the same job over and over and it makes me wonder if they are just trying to get free ideas through this design challenge they did with me. don't fall for it.
protect your work and stop giving away free ideas to these companies.

how do i navigate working with a close minded boss?
this is my first year working, i work as a product designer  and dealing with a boss that’s kind of not knowledgable is draining me. she’s more of a marketing specialist and so maybe this is why some differences in our opinion.
basically i could spend hours in research, benchmarking competitors etc when designing  our features to make sure its aligned with industry standards for our product and for some reason she’ll want to go the other way where it doesn’t make sense. she’ll provide examples from a benchmark she’ll have but its from a product not even related to what we do just because its more aligned with her marketing background. 
i couldn’t provide specific features due to nda but let’s say i work in a livechat feature and she’ll suggest features from another industry. i do have an open mind regarding exploring her ideas but oftentimes its hard to apply it since its tailored for that industry, explaining to her that her suggestion works for her example is useless as she’s not budging as to what makes sense for her. 
i’m kind of getting drained not having trust to follow my well researched designs as oftentimes i would just follow her instructions since she’s the boss. this recent feature is where i’m sort of holding my ground because its a core feature, i thoroughly researched it and her suggestions doesn’t make sense, take note i do have an open mind to what she said it just doesn’t work for our case. now i feel like i’m annoying her with me not being obedient though i’m sure the lead developer would take my side.
i don’t want to go behind her back and go to the dev team for approval though but this sort of arrangement is stressing me out.

has anyone used to the free plan in webflow for their portfolio and can it be done?
hello there! i am in the process for setting my website for my portfolio on webflow. it is my first time using it and for my 1st portfolio, i don't want to spend monthly payments for access for more pages and etc. if i can avoid it. a) does anyone where to find some portfolio inspo/examples using the restrictions on the free access of webflow? b)do you think it's possible to use the free plan for a portfolio?

documenting end-to-end product experiences
i’m currently working for fortune 500 tech company and am being asked to document our end-to-end experiences in a figma file. 
our product is massive and many parts of it is owned by different teams and it’s getting to be impossible to find single source of truths, including jumping into test accounts and taking screenshots of everything. by the time i get things mapped out and documented, new releases happen and makes whatever i just documented obsolete. 
there has to be a better way of doing this, wondering if anyone here has any advice or tips that could make this process more efficient, that can easily scale.
any ideas?

networking question
i’m going to a networking meetup tomorrow. i haven’t been to one of these in a number of years, so i’m looking forward to it. i’m also in the market for a new job. should i bring business cards? how are professionals sharing their info these days? i’m located in colorado. thanks in advance.

how competitive is govtech?
i've been working in start-ups and am starting to look into govtech. i've applied from usa jobs but there are rarely available positions and i usually get a rejection letter when i apply. anyone here have experience transitioning as a product designer from a start-up to working for the government or government agency?

spotify...c'mon, what the hell is this now
https://i.redd.it/0elqwsh1qlkd1.png

nine negotiable design principles
https://uxthoughts.notion.site/nine-negotiable-design-principles-2631b9276e264c51ac7bfa7efe47c72c?pvs=4

struggling with workplace bullying and lack of support—what should i do?
hey everyone,
i’m in a tough situation at work and really need some advice. i recently joined a new company where i was excited to contribute and make a difference. however, things have gone downhill since i started, and i’m feeling really lost and unsupported.
here’s what’s been happening:
bullying by a senior team member: there’s a senior member on my team who constantly dismisses my ideas and contributions, even going as far as to publicly criticize me. i’ve tried to address the situation with my manager and hr, but so far, nothing has changed. it feels like my concerns are not taken seriously.
health issues and lack of accommodation: i have a chronic health condition that causes severe pain and anxiety. i’ve communicated my needs and absences due to this condition, but i’ve only received pushback from my team and hr. hr has been condescending, and instead of helping, they’ve suggested i need to handle things differently. this is taking a toll on my mental and physical health. (ehlers danlos syndrome and audhd)
feeling undervalued and overlooked: despite being hired for a specialized role, i often feel like my input is an afterthought. my work gets ignored or dismissed, and i’ve even had to watch as my contributions are sidelined for reasons i don’t understand. i suggested hiring another person with my skill set to provide better support, but that was ignored too.
confusing work environment and mixed messages: the work environment is chaotic, and i’m constantly getting mixed messages from different leaders. i’m told to prioritize certain tasks, only for others to be deemed more critical without warning. this has left me feeling confused and overwhelmed.
documentation and efforts going unnoticed: i’ve documented all my efforts to address these issues and provided detailed work and research to improve our team’s processes, but it feels like none of it is appreciated. instead, i’m accused of being uncommitted or not doing my job.
health impact: i’ve even had to take days off due to severe pain, but instead of understanding, my absences are held against me. i’m being treated like a junior employee, despite being brought in as an expert in my field.
i don’t want to resign because i genuinely believe in the work we’re doing, but i also don’t want to ignore my health any longer. i’ve tried everything i can think of to improve the situation, but nothing seems to work. i feel like i’m at a breaking point and don’t know who to turn to.
what should i do next? how can i address the bullying effectively, and ensure my role and contributions are respected? has anyone else been in a similar situation and found a way out?
thanks for any advice or support you can provide. i really appreciate it.
tl;dr: i'm experiencing bullying from a senior team member at work, and despite reporting it to my manager and hr, nothing has been done. my health is deteriorating due to stress, and hr hasn't been helpful with accommodations. i feel undervalued and ignored in my role, which is affecting my mental and physical well-being. i don’t want to quit, but i’m not sure how to improve the situation. any advice on how to handle this or where to turn next would be greatly appreciated.
(also posted in /askhr, /workplace_bullying, /antiwork, /careerguidance, and /advice)

worth it to apply to product manager jobs as a ux designer?
i do have the transferable skills and have been doing lots of pm work. however, recruiters are notorious for being brain dead and unable to understand transferable and related skills, which makes it pointless to apply to prod manager roles unless i have had that title in the past. they  will be looking for that job title on my resume, which i don't have. just ux. should i shoot my shot?

fellow managers, how do you talk about your contributions vs your team's in portfolio reviews?
i've had two portfolio prezos in the past 2 weeks and i got asked "but what did you do as a manager specifically vs what the team did", i even added this slide for the most recent review since i was specifically asked on the first one.
**my role (broadly)**
**facilitate working sessions with product, design and engineering**  
**define research strategy & methodology**  
**negotiate requirements, deliverables and timelines with product**  
**co-own quarterly roadmap planning with product**  
**(other things you might expect from a manager)**
the rest of the deck is structured as follows:
background  
users & pain points  
explorations & solutions  
learnings  
outcomes
maybe i'm missing something super obvious, i'm a very involved manager, i don't just give orders to the team and they come back when they're done, i don't micromanage, my teams launched some cool and important stuff with tons of business impact. these decks take so long to put together, i'm frustrated.
how do you frame your contributions as a manager? i'll even share my deck if anyone is curious, and also appreciate it if anyone is willing to share theirs over dm.
p.s.
i have yet to hear back from either one of these companies about making it to the next round or not. i should mention my role is 100% management, not a player-coach, i do zero ic work, i've been a manager for 4 years, and i was an ic for 4 years before that.

will the role of a product designer be replaced by technology, or will it evolve with technological advancements in the design field?
i’m sure this question has been asked before, but i couldn’t find the thread, so i’m asking it again. i was prompted to reflect on this topic after discovering tools like [uizard.com](http://uizard.com), which can generate screens from simple prompts. with the increasing reliance on ai and the vast amount of data and research on ui patterns, i wonder how the role of a product designer might evolve.
i’d love to hear your thoughts on how these advancements might impact the role of product designers. also, which skills do you think will become increasingly important in the future?

company wants to do a software overhaul. can i help?
i have a second job working for a mid-size logistics company on the accounts receivable side. our company has been using ancient software for decades for pretty much everything, think ms dos. now they're doing a complete software overhaul, all in-house and have grandiose ideas about implementing ai models and automating a lot of the work we do. they want to make everything look pretty and colorful and add all these zany features, which i think is unnecessary. i think the current software runs like butter and gets the job done without any hiccups. it's also very easy to train new people on it. upper management loves to emphasize the importance of usability and how it can cost us millions if done poorly but they have no designers or researchers on the team. i have a ton of experience with our internal processes and workflows, and been using their software for a while. my question is, would it be out of line to ask the it guys if i can come on as a designer? have you or someone you know ever done something like this?

i’m not sure if my experience qualify as ux designer.
preface: my official role has never been ux designer. i graduated as a graphic designer couple years ago, and i currently work with a developer to integrate an automation software for our manufacturing company. 
our software is a sandbox software that doesn’t necessarily have a ui for the people using it. it interacts with crm and utilizes native os as the ui for triggers to activate certain functions. 
i do what ux designers do, where i interview the users (my colleagues) and clients to find out what they don’t like about the company’s current workflow. 
i guess my question is, do you think i qualify as a ux designer?

what are success metrics for a e-commerce store  and mobile apps
hey r/uxdesign!
. i'm freaking out a bit and could use some wisdom from you awesome folks.
so, i've been doing ux design for about 4 years now, but i've always been in-house. now i'm taking the plunge into freelancing (exciting but terrifying), and i've landed a potential client for my first gig. here's the kicker - it's an e-commerce redesign, which i've never tackled before. 😬
the client is a local shoe store looking to revamp their app and website. i'm meeting them soon and want to knock their socks off (pun intended), but i'm feeling a bit out of my depth with the e-commerce angle.
here's where i need your help:
1. what metrics should i be looking at for e-commerce? (besides the usual usability stuff)
2. any tips for that first client meeting? i don't want to come off as a total noob.
3. what should i be charging for something like this? i have no clue about freelance rates.
4. are there any e-commerce ux tools or resources you swear by?
5. what are some common e-commerce ux mistakes i should watch out for?
basically, any advice you can throw my way would be amazing. i want to crush this opportunity, but i'm also trying not to let imposter syndrome get the best of me.
thanks in advance, you beautiful ux wizards! 🙏
tl;dr: ux designer needs help with first freelance e-commerce project.

freelance motion design rates
what do you all charge for motion design in addition to your normal ux design?
toying with add on of 500 day rate if client wants motion on either web or mobile…thoughts?

do you create reusable components first?
say you’ve understood scope of a project well enough to begin designing for it. do you begin by creating reusable components first? (especially relevant if you’re a freelancer and starting from scratch with no component library and the only thing the client gave you are branding colours).
i’ve tried to begin by creating components first but i don’t like the process for some reason. i like creating screen designs first and then look back at the already created screens to reuse those components. wondering if this isn’t a good process.

need advice to keep my mental sanity in a sales driven feature factory.
this is an update from my previous thread:  
[https://www.reddit.com/r/uxdesign/comments/1brkv3i/how\_to\_deal\_with\_legacy\_software\_systems\_and/](https://www.reddit.com/r/uxdesign/comments/1brkv3i/how_to_deal_with_legacy_software_systems_and/)
it's 6 months into my role now. the s(hi)tuation is more complicated than i thought. 
i noticed the main issue is neither on the legacy product itself nor devs (devs are still causing issues, but they are not the primary concern now). it's actually with the culture of the company (sales-driven), sales team and my supervisor (who is a project manager but pretty biased towards sales). 
as per some of the redditors suggested in previous thread, i tried to follow devs' way of doing things (since they can treat 'ui redesign' as a big project), proposed some clutter reduction and attempted to paint fresh coat of paint over it, and propose incremental flow optimizations. 
however, recently sales took **all** the feedback from customers (including those who haven't signed on) and shove everything to me as "feature requests" without considering the limitations of this legacy software and the impact/benefits towards this product. some of their requests are just not value-adding to the product, i tried reasoning with my supervisor only to end up quarrelling with him. so the devs and i have to 100% listen to him, prioritize developing features and features over the main problem (which is the shitty ui and complicated flow). it has resulted in a shittier and extremely feature-bloated software, and lesser customers signed on. a few current customers even gave up on this software and decided to pull out from it because their feedback is "too complicated". 
i attempted to voice out the main issue to the big boss as a last resort, however the boss is also sales-driven and says "complexity is the way to go". i had multiple conflicts with supervisor on scope creep and feature creep, only to get his ultimatum feedback "shut up and just do it. let the devs figure their way, your job is just design". my mental sanity has been draining rapidly because this product is a sinking ship stuck in a product death cycle loop, and this company is just treating me as a feature factory. 
how to survive in a company that is a feature factory? is it time to move on? i don't even want to display this product in my portfolio.

single password field examples
has anyone got any good examples of e-commerce sites that use a single password entry field as part of their change or reset password flow? (as in, there is no “confirm password” field that requires them to re enter their new password).
tia - not being lazy just pulling blank after blank

reframing the role title to "product designer" is confusing (for employers) and complicates things
a bit of an oldhead pov, but if you search "product designer" positions on any job board, you'll see what i mean. it opened up the definition and expectations wide open, plus, it brings up many irrelevant roles like "product systems design engineer" and "senior designer product developer". product designer, historically, is the term for designers and engineers building physical products for manufacturing. so, imo, it should have stayed "level\_ux\_designer/engineer \_specialty". rant - out. 
#

nextdoor using engagement bait by design
here to vent about how nextdoor artificially limits the length of titles and posts to a ridiculous degree. i can only assume this is an engagement bait tactic.
once you’ve shown intent to “view post” they once again artificially limit the length of the full post, requiring you to click “see more” and then a third click to view the comment thread. then you reflect on how useless the thread was to begin with, and inevitably feel scammed. 
compare that to reddit, which shows you the full message, and links you directly to the thread.
kids, don’t do this.

ux/ui design managers: if you could go back in time, what do you wish you could tell your younger self?
i'm curious to hear from those of you who are ux/ui design managers now: if you could go back in time to when you first started in management, what do you wish you had known or felt more confident about?

has anyone attended nielson norman group?
current content strategist copywriter who wants to pivot into ux. been writing ux copy for years and it fascinates me. i’m not into designing but want to be a strategist/research maybe get into cx. nng has courses that can help in these areas but i just want to know if this is worth it and if it has benefited anyone before i drop 5k.

when have you risked it all for an idea?
as ux designers/individual contributors, we often are executing another’s vision. there’s creative rewards when you find ways to smooth out a pain point, or delight the user.
but sometimes you have a really cool idea, born of your familiarity with the user and the product, to pursue an initiative or a feature that isn’t in the roadmap.
i’m at such a place after a few years with this product. but i’m afraid to insert myself into the feature scoping process for some reason.
so when have you pitched an idea that was outside of your job description and how did you muster the courage to do it?

[ removed by reddit ]
[ removed by reddit on account of violating the [content policy](/help/contentpolicy). ]

am i the only one who hates doing annotations/are they a waste of time?
when i am strapped for time working on multiple projects across multiple teams the time it takes to go through and annotate every single screen i feel like is a massive waste of time......  
or maybe i'm just to the point in my career where working with incompetent developers has gotten frustrating......
anywho else have a similar sentiment or something they do to help reduce the time they spend doing annotations?

how to deal with less experienced designer that is not interested for mentorship?
i want to take a lead in this company because i feel that the company is lacking initiative and their current designer is not very experienced. i tried making suggestions by providing references on areas which i feel could further improve the efficiency of his workflow. unfortunately he gave a ui guideline which is obviously just based from a book called practical ui that he shared to our boss to boost his ego. the contains random do’s and don’t without showing actual ux process.
i laugh a little when he mentioned that he has been in the company for a year but he doesn’t know how the product function, literally during meeting i could tell that he has no idea what the stakeholders are talking about.
i could feel that he gets a little bit reluctant for mentorships and it seems like he is not really passionate about the craft because he constantly chitchat with our colleagues and i constantly see that most of his time is spent on messenger (nope, not teams).
we have a very tight deadline and we are teaming up together. i feel that if the project would fail, we will be both accountable even if i put most of the effort.
i would really appreciate suggestions on how to tackle this and make better ways to make this work.

how to handle pushback on data-driven decisions in ux design?
i’m a ux designer with substantial experience and a strong focus on data visualization. lately, i’ve been facing a lot of pushback from uxr and product managers who prefer making decisions based on personal preferences or single-test results, rather than relying on comprehensive user research and data… they dismiss valid data (calling it invalid for whatever reason, usually question phrasing or answer interpretation), often focusing on one or two outliers that support their preferences.
despite my efforts to emphasize the importance of data-driven decisions and continuing education, it’s leading to unnecessary churn in projects. potentially leading to the release of sub-par experiences.
has anyone else experienced this? how did you navigate it and ensure that research and data are respected in the decision-making process?

how to properly manage time doing ui and ux work and product management tasks at the same time?
hi. i am the designer for a project at work. i'm also doing another project on the side. for the first project i mentioned, i'm now responsible for writing the jira tickets/stories as well as story point estimation. however, i am having trouble balancing product manager + project manager tasks with my actual job title. is there a recommended way to manage time?
i'm now currently doing story point estimates for future sprints, which is time-consuming because i have to analyze lots of things. i also get derailed by meetings a lot. i feel like i have no time for anything.

individual contributor vs "manage yourself and the work" expectations at start-ups
let me start off by saying i know in start ups things aren't often as clear as in ideal cases. lines blur and we all must contribute and wear different hats.
but our stakeholders often use that as a excuse on us to say that anything that falls through the cracks whether its from their side or not is a lack of personal management skills and also of us not taking enough initiative to grow ourselves. they say we must look at everything holistically and also contribute individually to the daily tasks with no delays. ad hoc work comes in or regular client work stays on we must constantly be prepared and even predict any curve balls that come from their end about client suddenly not needing something or in understanding things we weren't even in the room for. is it possible to become as responsible and effective as a "manager" type when you simply are a individual contributor in all role and salary capacities.
i'm at a loss in my own way because sometimes i think i'm not good enough yet and just cant seem to catch the stuff that falls through and sometimes i feel like how would i ever know these things when the stakeholders change their minds in meetings we are never a part of.
just wanna know what your guyses experience has been in these types of situations.

unpopular opinion: design is a service
after spending the last 3 years in the corporate tech world, and seeing how design perceived its role and the countless posts on this sub about enterprise design being dead, i've come to a realization that might ruffle some feathers: product design is fundamentally a service, and we need to start embracing this fact.
i think there's a big gap between what design thinks it is compared to what it should be.
here's my perspective:
1. serving multiple stakeholders: we serve not just users, but also our employers, shareholders, and the business as a whole. recognizing this can help us make more holistic design decisions.
2. profitability focus: with tech companies increasingly prioritizing profitability, designers need to remember that we're contributors to the bottom line. our work isn't just about creating beautiful interfaces; it's about driving business results.
3. time constraints are real: spending countless hours on exploration and iteration simply isn't realistic in today's fast-paced tech environment. we need to balance creativity with efficiency.
4. business acumen is crucial: i believe designers would greatly benefit from business education. understanding financials, market dynamics, and strategic planning can help us make more impactful decisions and communicate our value more effectively.
5. measurable outcomes: like any service, our work should be measured by its outcomes – user satisfaction, increased conversions, reduced support tickets, etc. these metrics tie directly to business success.
6. adaptability is key: the tech industry moves fast. as service providers, we need to be quick to adapt to new technologies, market changes, and evolving business needs.
embracing design as a service doesn't diminish its importance and enterprise design is not dead. if anything, it elevates our role by directly tying our work to business success. it's time we stop seeing "service" as a dirty word and start leveraging this mindset to increase our impact and value in the tech industry.
i'm curious to get everyone's thoughts on this.

is enterprise ux dying?
maybe this is just my experience, but i've had some thoughts about the ux field for a while now. this post is more of me "thinking out loud" than it is trying to convince anyone of anything. happy to hear others' opinions.
my background is i was a career ux designer from 2014 - 2024. i've worked in both consumer and enterprise ux, both in-house and at an agency. i've worked at companies with thousands of employees and i was employee number 8 at a startup.
ux leaders like jared spool and others are pushing ux designers to think more about business goals and roi. i hate this because in my opinion it means most features never get the attention they deserve. focusing on business goals makes ux designers more like project managers. you're always chasing whatever the new "shiny" thing is, or what the investors say is important that quarter. because taking a feature from good to great doesn't bring in new revenue, it rarely happens on a large scale. small features sure, but larger cross-product features almost never.
it means projects get dropped, teams get dropped/restructured, features are left half baked. you build something "good enough" to convince new customers to join, but leave them with a mediocre experience while you're off building the next thing.
here's an example, in my five years at a large enterprise company (dev-ops) it was well-known that our notification system was awful. notifications are important for a developer to understand what they need to focus on, or problems they need to address, etc. we tried so many times to fix it, even implement a basic notification system, but it never went anywhere because it wasn't a business goal.
aside from this experience, i was moved around 5 times during those 5 years, never because of poor performance, always because of restructuring and refocusing goals. this sucked because i was never able to experience any sort of longevity or security on any team, which is horrible for my resume.
i don't know, i feel pretty jaded about our industry and the "experts" who push these philosophies on us. i was actually fortunate to get out of the industry and hope i never have to go back. and if i do, i would rather work for a smaller consumer-focused company that doesn't feel "techy".
what are your thoughts?
**edit**
i appreciate the input here. it helps me sort out my own thoughts. after reading everyone's feedback, i think a better title might have been "are ux designers just becoming pms and is that bad?" or something like that. i definitely don't disagree that ux can and should impact bottom line. that's always been the case. this post mostly stemmed from me noticing the way we talk about ux changing, which then correlated with what i was seeing in big tech both around me, and in the horribly designed products that are built by companies like facebook, google, amazon, etc., who claim to be the industry design leaders.

what do product designers think about product managers?
whats your relationship with pms been like? why do you like/dislike them? what don you think of the pm role and pms in general?

what activities does your community of practice include?
i just took over the ux cop at my work, and i’m looking for help planning the upcoming schedule.
currently we’re monthly, and i’m thinking of changing to fornightly because sometimes our cops are too packed with topics/speakers. 
here’s our current activities:
- presentations from internal employees
- presentations from guest speakers
- watch parties for videos/conference talks
- discussion of proposed design system changes
- ux reviews of internal tools (when a team does a big product update, they’ll present to the cop and ask for feedback. i’m not a huge fan of these bc the feedback is all impulsive, but my boss and boss’s boss loves them because it “adds ux” to things even when we’re not directly involved in the product)
i’m worried if we move to every 2 weeks i’ll quickly run out of contacts i can reach out to willing to give a talk for free, or run out of other activities. 
our cop usually gets about 50 people participating from across the org, and most people have very little/no ux training and are hopping in to learn more about ux. 
what activities does your cop do? how often do they meet? what’s your favorite types of activities/topics in a cop?

ux trend: is the bottom tab bar becoming obsolete in mobile ux design?
[screenshot of the apple photos app on ios 16 and ios 18. apple removed the bottom tab bar on ios 18.](https://preview.redd.it/kg8xy8tnseid1.png?width=622&format=png&auto=webp&s=08c145862090d3515a223d2431877ac4dd39c8da)
**with ios 18 removing the bottom tabs on the photos app, are we witnessing the birth of a new wave of ux design for mobile apps, where bottom tabs are no longer the mandatory norm?**
i can see advantages in simplifying the navigation by sticking to vertical scroll only. this may result in perceived simpler information architecture: instead of having to explore 3 or 4 complex sections with sub-menus and sections, you only need to explore one. the information hierarchy is also more clear: top = important, bottom = less important. i would assume that once users are familiar with it, the app would feel more accessible and easier to browse.
this change reminds me of the moment we simplified website architectures around 2014-2015, going from dozens of smaller pages with a massive menu, to a simpler one-page structure whenever possible.
what other popular apps adopted this practice? i can think of apple notes, chatgpt, noms... which other comes to your mind?

what is a reasonable hourly rate for a freelance product designer in europe?
hi guys, first-time pm here. i am trying to figure out what could be a reasonable hourly rate for a freelancer. we mainly need this resource to help us build a clear design system. i want to get a sense of what a reasonable rate could look like, before bringing this to the attention of the finance department.
i appreciate any information!
ps: we are based in germany but open to hire remote freelancers, as long as they are based in the eu.

our dev team have announced they have at least six months of work and won’t take on any more projects. anyone else been in that situation?
that leaves our ux team completely blocked as nothing we design now will be looked at until next year at the earliest. i’m currently speaking with the tech leads try to guarantee us some capacity and looking at other things we can do that don’t rely on dev, such as improving our user research and testing processes. 
our designers are smart and ambitious and it’s going to be hard to keep them motivated and feeling like they’re achieving things while not being able to get anything in front of customers. 
wondering if anyone else has been in a similar situation and what you did to get through it?

how’s ux/ui for you?
hey everyone!
i’m looking to join the industry and i was wondering:
- what is ux/ui all about? 
- what course(s)/degree did you take?
- what should i be expecting in this industry?
- what should i be learning / knowing before starting out?
- how’s the workload?

what would you do in this situation?
*what you would like to do in the situation described below? could you please pick one of these options and share how many years you’ve worked as a product designer? i’ll share mine after receiving some comments.*
**update**
i’m leaning to just update without pointing out it was my original idea. the project speed is so fast and i see no point of mentioning it. 
**situation**
you suggested a solution, but the team disagreed and decided to go in a different direction, despite your repeated warnings. 
months later, a new team member highlighted the same issue you had previously raised and suggested a solution identical to your original idea. most of the team members doesnt recall your earlier proposal and instead perceives the situation as a flaw in your design. they now want you to implement changes.
**options**
1) make the changes, as it aligns with the better user experience you initially advocated for. you can choose whether or not to mention it was your original design. 
2) remind the team that the current solution was adopted after they reviewed and rejected your original idea. stick with the final decision.

struggling with the ux of a custom component. could use some outside perspective.
i am working on building a component that allows users to enter their top 5 favorites of a category, and rank them in order.
on the backend, we will be keeping score of the votes, and showing the results after someone submits their entry.
with this component, there is a tricky balance between giving users "freedom" to enter whatever they like, but also keeping entries consistent.
for example – if we're doing a poll on the top 80's rock bands... one person might enter "def leppard". another person might enter "deaf leppard". and yet another person might enter "def leopard".
all three entries are for the same band – but, because of misspellings, we get three unique entries.
this would create skewed results, and prevent us from scoring entries accurately.
i.e. we might have 100 combined votes for variations of "def leppard", but only 75 votes for something simpler, like "poison". in this scenario, "poison" would be ranked higher even though "def leppard" technically got more votes.
to help remedy this, i have decided to put an autocomplete in place that providers users options to choose from as they start typing.
however, there is no guarantee that they will click on one of those options. for example... if they start typing "mot", an autocomplete might come up for "mötley crüe". instead of clicking on it, they might just proceed to type "motley crue" – which again... is the same band, but a variation in spelling (given the special characters of the autocomplete suggestion).
additionally – someone may want to enter a band that isn't even in the autocomplete list. i want to give them the freedom to do that, if they want. who knows – maybe the band they played in in college is legitimately one of their favorite 80's rock bands. 🤷
so – i am struggling to figure out the right balance on how to best approach this.
a couple of options i had considered include:
• putting validation in place as soon as they exit the field. if the value they entered does not match an item in the autocomplete, it shows up as red. the only downside to this approach is that it would discourage people from putting values in that are not on the autocomplete list.
• using a dropdown menu instead of an autocomplete. i really don't like this option though, and would prefer to avoid it if possible.
----
what do you guys think? is there a better way for me to go about this? would love some outside perspective on ways that i could make this into a better user experience.
[screenshot of the current iteration](https://preview.redd.it/yc4907baj2id1.png?width=682&format=png&auto=webp&s=d84d4d0b4120a3d87e55cf11fa74728bb704ed13)

got screwed myself - fell for assignment scam
i’m kicking myself for falling for a assignment. 
just recently moved to canada, i was actively looking for a job. now this company(1500+ employees) got interested in my profile and scheduled a case study walkthrough and done it. during the call he showed very good interest in me and has told me there will be a small assignment, i was stupid and accepted it by the way he told me “small” and all sugarcoated genuine interest he showed. stupid me. 
well the assignment came which was directly a part of their product and it was fucking huge ass sh*t including tablet mobile desktop to be delivered in 2 days. i did it because i had no other choice but to get something in hand, i knew the assignment scam going on all over. but argh. kick me. 
now idk what to do. 
i think i should put it up in my portfolio. what are the legal implications i should be looking at ? any ideas ? i can call this guys out for the free work. 
if it was not related to their product i wouldn’t have been so much pissed. call me stuupidd….

senior designers being distant/aloof to juniors?
hi guys, started with a new team recently and trying to learn from senior designers but it’s been harder than i thought. there are two senior designers and i’m the incoming junior. they didn’t interview or know me before i joined because i interviewed for a different team and was offered to join this one since the other team shelved the opening. anyway, the seniors here have been resistant to set up meetings to go over designs and for learning, and they take forever to respond or leave me on read on teams. when i ask them to show me some design practices that the team follows, they’re just super curt with the response and refuse to show me anything. they also act way friendlier to other managers but cold with me. i don’t know why this is happening and just want to ask for some possible explanations here, and if anyone has experience the same thing. also, this company does a lot of lay offs so i dont know if this is a possible explanation for the gatekeeping.

anyone else thinks hotjars ux is god awful?
it's highly ironic, i find their ux in their costumer dashboard to be a complete mess, it's honestly god awful.

how much to charge for a ux audit as a freelancer?
hey everyone,
i'm a senior-level ux designer with about 5 years of experience in the industry, recently started freelancing. i’m based in brazil, and i’ve been approached by a small company from the uk (around 11-50 employees) who are looking for a ux consultant for their mobile app. they’ve asked me to do an initial audit of the app and provide recommendations on what they should change to improve ux and boost conversions. i’ve already noticed a few areas where they could make some updates, as some aspects aren't following best practices. it seems like a pretty straightforward project, but since i’m new to freelancing, i’m not sure how much i should charge for this type of work.
i’m curious if anyone here has experience with similar projects and can offer some advice on pricing. should i charge an hourly rate or a flat fee for the whole audit? and what would be a reasonable rate for this type of project? i don’t want to sell myself short, but also don't want to overprice the project.  
any insights or suggestions would be greatly appreciated!

is a cookie cutter portfolio the only way to get hired?
i personally am not a fan of the cookie cutter portfolio. it takes all of my core to try to make one. i’m a minimalist. however, it seems that having any sense of originality has gone out the window. 
is that the only way to get a job? throw out all the aspect of being original in story telling? have we succumbed to being a pixel pushing factory? 
edit: this was a vent.

high level diagrams
hello, i need to create a diagram for our future users and recruites to understand better our software. but i’m not sure which is more effective, sitemap, uml, ia. can anyone recommend some solution?

what do you think of chatgpt ux/ui?
i’m curious of what people on this subreddit think of the chatgpt dashboard, mainly accessibility and it’s structure, but feel free to mention anything else

does your company tell you that ux should be leading/informing the product roadmap?
just curious if others encounter this at their jobs. recently i've been told by higher ups in a digital products team that the ux team needs to take more initiative in leading what projects the product teams should focus on. mind you, each product team under the umbrella does not have their specific designer. my team usually discusses with pms on projects and we decide who takes what on from our team. 
there seems to be a lot of pressure for us to be taking more initiative as a whole team, rather than leaders within it. i am currently a mid-level ux designer, and from my experience in the past, ux has always been there to support/consult with strategic decisions, not be the ones who have to start it.
curious what other peoples' experience has been when it comes to strategic planning/collaborative efforts with ux. i understand every company has their own structure and way of things.

how is the communication with the dev team in your company?
hi everyone, i am a junior and the sole designer on my team, and some things are a bit confusing to me.
is it common in your company to not have meetings between the design team and the development team?
in my current company, despite having structured processes, i still see a communication gap between the teams. for example, to receive feedback from the developers, i need to follow up with them to understand the feasibility of what i've created. once the design is approved by the product manager, and make changes if necessary, i don't hear anything from the dev team.
i understand this isn't part of the company's culture, but what i often hear are complaints about the design, even if approved before.
an important issue is that our design has a standard for almost everything, but recently, there have been many things deviating from this standard because we're doing projects that my company it's not used to it. this is causing problems.
i have been trying to gather feedback and have even suggested meetings for each stage, but i haven't been successful yet. the team doesn't seem on board yet about this ideia...
do you have any suggestions on how to improve this?

where to start as the only ux designer?
i grateful to finally  be working soon as the only ux designer but i feel unsure where to start once i am onboarded.
- what are the things i have to ask to product managers?
- do i have to held an ux audit since they already have existing ui but i don't know where to begin?
- are there questions i have to ask with project managers?
- what list of tasks i have to accomplish?
i am probably just experiencing some imposter syndrome. it would be very helpful for anyone who had the same experience. how are you able to get started on first month at work

i’m a lead ui software engineer. i now have the ux team as my direct reports. can i get a rundown of ux 101 and how do i ensure the the ux team is set up for success?
i like to think of myself as somewhat knowledgeable about application design but ultimately ux is not in my circle of professional competency. what do i need to know? i’m somewhat concerned that ux is taking on a lot of requirements gathering and defining , which may be symptomatic of my org’s weakness in that area unless you all suggest it’s normal.

just got into the field as an intern. and was told by hr that they will be letting go of me as they're looking to make the team more lean. will the number of designers required per fe developer further shrink after figma's latest features like multi-select and multi-edit.
i worked as an intern at a b2b enterprise saas company. i've got some minimal development experience.  i'm familiar with react. 5 years back frameworks like tailwind and shadcn didn't exist. 5 years back auto-layout didn't exist in figma. now we've got multi-edit & design tokens. a ton of monotonous work straight out the window. is it safe to say that there's been a 10x boost in productivity? as a newbie designer looking at these features i just can't help but feel a little sad for the designers who had to work without multiselect. i can't even imagine what it would be like to go back. to painstakingly push things around frame by frame. at the end of the day i am happy about these features. but i feel like we're headed towards a future where there will be less designers needed for every company. drastically less compared 2010's. can experience folks chime in?

how do your product managers/owners manage design and engineering?
are both teams involved on one jira? 
does design have its own separate pming software? do your pms manage that? 
is the life cycle of your project mainly focused on engineering? or is design included in that? 
my company seems to be extremely engineering focused. the pms pretty much only manage the engineers. a project's life is basically seen as when an engineer can start and finish. 
everything else is just a deterrent for engineering to do their job. 
i'm super curious how your team runs things.

i'm done with ux after a decade. what else does this experience qualify me to do?
seriously, what jobs are in life after ux?

who else is sick of redoing their portfolio?
rant: i don’t think i’ve ever changed my portfolio as much as i did this time around because of this shitty market and i feel like its all for no outcome. the sheer amount of times i have rewritten my case studies is just crazy to me and i’m so burnt out. this is the last time i fix it and if i cant get a job in ux im just going to find something else to do. im so done.

gatekeeping ux manager
i’m about to wrap up a edtech ux design contract job that was slated to possible fte. my manager hasn’t really been a leader. they’ve been hard to reach and not supportive. 
a faulty component stood out to me. i had created iterations for it. manager actually told me to stay within scope, so i put it to rest. a colleague noticed the same issue, tackled and solved the problem on their own accord and is now getting a ton of credit.
if we’re stacking performance, i didn’t accomplish a ton because my manager pumped my brakes all the time. i also came in early every single day but they never knew because they’re always late. we had maybe 5 weekly check-ins scheduled the entire 3 months and they canceled 4 of them, last minute.
i know i can do the job. my presence is well received by everyone else, and i feel support from them. sucks but i don’t think i’m gonna get the ft offer based off of the vibes alone. 
tldr; manager stood in your way from accomplishing things at your job, and possibly keeping you from getting the job. what do/did you do?

experience from interviews
i’m getting more experience through tasks and assignments than actual work experience. 
this just proves how hard interviews are becoming

advice with lack of support and management
i’m currently working as the only ux designer in hr tech (saas b2b) with around 3 major products. i need advice on how to navigate work as i’m struggling with the lack of support and standard here.
the company i currently work for has been around for 25 years and the processes are extremely backwards. there is no documentation on anything whatsoever (unless it’s a slidedeck for other parts of the business) but within the technical team, this does not exist. the only documentation sits in the form of jira ticket which is not great practice. it has originally been developer driven which i can understand. 
i’m trying to implement better efficiencies and standards as i have seen so much time wasted asking the same question and there is no way to self serve to obtain info on the multiple products to do our bloody jobs. i’ve discussed this with my pm (she’s new to the role and has no pm experience/ no exp working with ux or qa) and i’ve kindly asked for a functionality document or to build one out since we’re starting a new project/ redesigning. she fails to see this value in this and we should just reference tickets to jira as the source of truth. 
i know a simple document could make everyone’s lives easier, take the load off senior leads to answer the same question a million times by different disciplines but also have everyone aligned. it’s just standard practice. 
im finding it really hard to focus on 
ux when im doing the pm work as well. in need of some advice as i feel overworked and depleted and now considering moving elsewhere.

making as much money as possible in ux?
title says it. i've been in a loop of applying and working in mid-level and senior-level roles, and am trying to get more strategic about making more as a uxer or in a ux-adjacent position. the volatility of the job market the past few years has killed a lot of my initial passion for the work, and as much as i advocate for users and best practices, the companies i've worked for mostly just treat designers really poorly and don't respect ux. i'm now more interested in prioritizing earning potential. 
what positions / industries / sectors / roles would you target? or what ux-adjacent positions? also if any of these require additional education or qualifications that's fine. thank you!

how do you make money by making good ux?
from what i understand, making a good ux means reducing friction or adding value to a service. however, in my experience, paying money usually feels like a bad experience at some point. so, from my perspective, spending less money is good ux, which seems ironic because companies pay ux designers to help them earn money. is there a good way to tackle this? or is my understanding of ux incorrect?

seeking advice on building / scaling a team in startup
long story short: currently the sole designer at a mid stage startup (200+ employees), have been holding it all together so far, but way over-leveraged and approaching burnout. have far too many (12+) pos to attend to, and no matter how hard i work, how much i streamline my workflow, i have become a bottleneck. 
lead ux designer w/ 6+ years experience, have had direct reports in the past, but no experience building a team from scratch. making a case to increase headcount and scale the function, and want to come prepared. 
does anyone have any advice, books, resources, etc for someone in my position? in particular, looking for advice / resources related to scaling the function from 0-1, hiring plans, communicating / advocating for value of the function, particularly in an org w/ low design maturity. 
frankly, i expect many of the most relevant resources here may be targeted at orgs in the stage we were at 4-5 years ago… but hey, that’s where we’re at. baby steps, i suppose.
thanks in advance.

advice on working with devs (agile)
hi everyone! im a new designer, almost a year into my first role and i’ve got a question about working with devs. 
basically when i started at this company i was assigned this relatively large project where we have to design a whole new feature for our customer website. 
in the first couple of months i was learning the ropes and working on the design based on the  requirements set by the product manager and business team. the pm then got the developer to start building the feature. 
only after that he decides we should do some user research, so i conducted interviews with our target group. i also suggested speaking with the finance team (and really pushed for this) to iron out some crucial details as well. so we did. 
fast forward half a year and 4 versions later, we’ve completely revamped the project and the changes are huge. maybe about 70% difference. 
now the pm is passing back to the same dev to get him to work on it again (all in the name of being agile) and i’m aware that he’s not very happy about it lol. 
as a designer, what can i do to help? i thought about using figma’s compare changes in dev mode but the changes are too drastic for that. i also considered preparing a before and after file with annotations to help him. but i’m rushing against time to finish the mobile screens. 
what are your thoughts/suggestions/advice? is this normal in agile? 
thanks so much!

how do i evolve design in the pharma industry?
hi. i currently work in the pharma space for a multinational company. this company has 30+ brands under its name and all operate in various countries. 
my main design role is overseeing the use of a design system for the creation of marketing websites. these sites are 90% informational with some offering key functionality for users to achieve a goal. since starting this system has grown to enterprise-wide adoption, i introduced user research capabilities and moved us to figma. 
i’m looking for ideas or tips for how this role can keep evolving? we do not have any digital products but it is something i want to explore and find a solution for. we are a small design team of 2 people and the only real fulfilment is when we research and iterate on the key functionality on our sites. at the end of the day though, we design marketing sites. 
disclaimer: i know that i know the company best and only i can really answer the questions but i thought it might be good to ask here in case others were in the same situation and have tips or advice. 
tl;dr i want to evolve my team’s output away from only designing marketing websites. any advice?

your design is released and it receives negative feedback. how would you approach this problem?
(in light of the figma ui redesign, but also for self improvement and something we may face at our jobs)
have you ever experienced this before or if you haven’t, then how would you approach it? 
there’s 2 things
(1) soft skills: your ownership and accountability to the situation, and also your general composure in meetings to discuss that things didn’t go well (anxious just thinking about this lol). how would you discuss with pm, dev, and stakeholders while maintaining their trust in you as a designer. 
(2) hard skill : do you have to actually revert the design changes? what methods/steps do you take to figure out whether users just don’t like change vs. the change was actually bad?

what would you do if you got sick and tired of corporate life?
hey all - i feel bad writing this cause i have a good manager and work on a product i like and i know i'm privileged to even have a job given the current market - i've just been feeling so burnt out and depressed lately and feel like there's no way out since you need to make money to live. anyone else feeling so tired of everything? what would you do if you were to drop your career?

advice on how to approach information architecture on a project that is intended to expand and change significantly post launch.
i am part of a small team working on a site for a uk healthcare service. due to extremely tight immovable deadline constraints and a slow corporate decision making structure, it has been agreed that we will launch a bare bones 'basic functions' site with limited ambition, then in the 12 months post launch, expand the site and develop the more ambitious functions and experiential elements. 
many of the elements 'to be added later' are unknowns (some of them even unknown unknowns). however, we are very keen not to require a site wide redesign in that first year in order to support the future elements.
is there any advice or any approaches that you know of to support this? i'm aware this may be an impossible question, just wondering if anyone else has encountered it before and found an approach/resolution.

how does ux design work if it’s not in two week sprints?
i have worked as a designer in companies with two week sprints and typically ux research falls through because my focus was on delivery in an agile startup environment. i’m starting a new job where the ux team does not do two week sprints. what does that look like if there are researchers and designers? what does the pace of non agile ux feel like?

thoughts on pms taking on design responsibilities.
i have noticed that there is a fine line between pm, uxr., and uxd/product. now, who is the one who does the strategy, concepts, empathy maps, etc.

hot(?) / bad(?) take: case studies are mostly fluff
being slightly tongue-in-cheek here, but also slightly serious...
i've seen a slew of posts asking about case studies and portfolios. 
i think in an ideal world, that makes sense. we all are professional ux designers who work for professional institutions who embrace users, research, iterative design, validation, etc. 
but none of us live in an ideal world. in fact, most of us live in a corporate world that couldn't care less about any of the above. 
i have very few actual case studies in my portfolio as i've worked for very few organizations that gave a shit about the aforementioned issues. 
so, i guess my take is, a candidate having or not having extensive and detailed case studies isn't really an indicator to me as to how good they are, but rather what specific companies they have worked for. 
i feel the push for every ux designer having a plethora of detailed case studies is leading a lot of ux folks down a path that maybe isn't necessary. i'm also guessing it's leading to a lot of bs in a lot of case studies. :)
i'd much rather see a nice presentation that focuses on problem solving. i don't need a full case study. just tell me why that screen your showing has the features it has. if the answer is "because sales really wanted it" that's cool. that's a real world situation. i want to see how you handle the real world.

feeling like a pixel monkey?
how do you all deal with uxr resources requesting a bunch of changes to a design before they will launch a uxr study? maybe it's just me feeling like i'm not good enough anymore, but it's exhausting to go through reviews with 6+ stakeholders looking at designs, and have them argue about what to change and make decisions and i just do it... i have good reasons for why i do things, but inevitably they (the product and research people) have some other extenuating thing that's a new requirement now and this is why it needs to be done their way. often good reasons, but things they didn't tell me until this, now, the umpteenth hour. i'm frustrated with looking like a fool because they don't bother to tell me all the details of the requirements. it's like i need an extra three weeks at the beginning of each project to do the work on the person who is supposed to be determining the requirements. i mean, that person does their job... it just seems that in this project, and others those requirements haven't been complete or fully thought out until, oh! it's time to pay attention now and the people who were supposed to provide the requirements are now actually thinking about the requirements.... gaahhhhh

does anyone feels lost ?
i'm in between of designing of 4 different products into one. sometimes i feel the solution is in mind and just a draft away then i start making it just to realize there is lot to be done.

need to make a 6 month onboarding/ performance plan for a mid-weight designer who’s gonna join our team. objectives and results.
my manager told me i need to make this plan so we can measure his performance, to according to what i create. in my mind i was going to work with him on marketing items first. then introduce him to the design system. clean up the backlog there and then slowly introduce him to the app with some first ux challenges by the end of the 6 months period. we have a broad roadmap, but work mostly only got planned 2 weekends in advance so i find it very hard to make a half a year plan. any textbook procedures here i can apply?

forcing old user accounts that happen to use a gmail address as a login name to now use google authenticator feels off. what are your thoughts?
https://i.redd.it/zfrh29rpidfd1.png

starting as the sole designer taking over another designer
hey everyone! tomorrow i’ll be starting a new job as the sole designer for this mid level company that’s been around for a little while but the app they’re working to create is completely new. 
i’ve always worked under a lead and this will be my first time taking a sole designer position. the previous designer was working on the wireframes and user journey maps and they’ll be leaving in a week so i’ll be taking on the work from here. 
if anyone has any tips on what are some things i should take care of/ handle in this first week to ensure smooth sailing i’d greatly appreciate it. 
also any tips at all as to what you did when you first started as a sole designer would also be very very helpful

suggestions for an icon design class
hey folks, i’m a 5 yoe product designer. i have been recently invited to take 2 day classes at a design school (for masters students). this is part of an icon/ideogram design module that spans for a week and i come in, during the last 2 days.by the time i come in, students are expected to have picked a particular existing website, then they will be taught by a professor on how to start making icons for specific touch points of this website as a practice. i’ve been asked to help students place their icons on these respective websites. the goal is to introduce them to basics of web design and warmup with tools like figma, while also providing critique on the icons they have designed/wip. i have a rough idea of this but want to understand from this group, what are things that i should not miss/expect. what would you do in preparation for this? (i’m teaching something for the first time so want to make sure that i provide good value and also learn how to make this interesting) thanks!

overwhelmed on deciding the scope of portfolio case studies
hi, all. i’ve been at my current company for awhile, and there are 3 main projects i’ve led design for. they’re all connected as each are a step in a patient’s experience during clinical research. 
main flows:
- enrolling a study
- creating an online account to get updates
- getting health results to understand risk
however, i’m getting overwhelmed when i try to approach case study creation. each project has an initial launch with typical design phases, but i also have post-launch iteration where my team was able to build features to solve newer problems based on patient feedback and metrics analysis. there are also multiple cohorts of patients for each flow.
enrollment, sample collection, and health results data that is collected from these flows are also used in other projects that designers at my company have been able to lead to help healthcare organizations with patient care.
for each case study: 
- how have you’ve shown how 1 project fits into the larger context of a longer user journey without going overboard?
- have you been able to show multiple iterations of a project in a concise way (pre and post-launch)?
- is there a way i could nod to how the data collected from my flows also help power other projects at the company?

design decision documentation
i recently was having a conversation with a mid-career designer about a topic i've longed discussed with others in various roles (as a lead, manager, or director with various organizations). i'm curious what this community's take on documenting design decisions made over the course of the work they do.
my take is it's critical and there's no great tooling out there currently to help manage it (perhaps the reigns could be taken up by figma someday). often, designers i've talked to about this view this as unnecessary work until the point they get asked a question about why a certain decision was made. typically, i've seen this happen up to a year or more later. often, the designer forgets the original intention; other times the original designer may not be with the organization or team anymore.
in the past, i've urged teams i work with to include this in any ticketing system such as jira to go along with any prototypes/mockups that are included for the work to be done. focus usually has been on critical or particularly controversial decisions.
so i'm curious what approaches have others used if anything at all?
[view poll](https://www.reddit.com/poll/1ecvmat)

youtube's hompage redesign with user behavior analytics
hi!  
i’m looking for something on the internet that i can’t find, perhaps you can help me.
i’m looking for a video interview or blog post (i don’t remember which one it was) about youtube’s homepage redesign and how they used user behavior data to analyze that users only went from video to video. no one checked the homepage, so they used that data to improve the flow and direct more people to their homepage by delivering personalized recommendations.
the graph they used to analyze the data was a circular/pie chart with several layers indicating where users would go next.
do you think any of this would ring a bell to anyone?
edit: for more context, i believe it was released by a google official channel, like a story from what they did to accomplish certain milestones on youtube.

what is the design pattern called when you motivate users to click on a specific cta?
for example, you have a filter on the page and you want to suggest that the user click on a specific option so you draw attention to it with some sort of animation… or you want a user to subscribe so you draw attention to the subscribe button with an animation or bold text / color? i’m building out something today and need to research but i don’t know what it’s called. tia!

i'm the only designer at my company with no prior experience and i'm completely stuck
i've made a previous [post](https://www.reddit.com/r/uxdesign/comments/1bg5hbo/just_got_a_job_and_i_dont_know_what_im_doing_help/) about how i was lucky enough to fall into my first job despite my lack of experience in the ux field, or any experience at all. ever since then, i got a bunch of book recommendations and online courses from this sub which i've been both, reading and doing - really appreciate all the help. however, not much has changed.
i'm still the only ux/ui designer in this **startup**, working alongside an experienced software engineer we've made 3 websites so far with a 4th one on the way, all overseen by the director. everyone seems happy with the outcomes. the problem is i still feel like an imposter and i have no idea what i'm doing. i don't have a mentor and i have no clue how things should realistically be done in a professional environment. i know the designs are not up to quality that they should be, but i'm trying my best.
it's completely remote and i feel like i'm not learning anything and i have nothing to show for after being at this company for 9 months. pay is awful, but for a first job i couldn't complain as i was eager to finally get that experience on my cv, especially with how difficult finding a job is. my problem is i have no idea where to go from here. i'm a '*senior*' ux designer with 0 prior experience and an education in graphic design. i've created multiple brandings from scratch, executive summaries, fairly complex animations, pitch decks, social media posts, design systems, all whilst designing websites and i'm worried this makes me seem "unwanted" due to the lack of specialisation.
i've also been taking on some freelance work on webflow projects. what initially was a favour for a friend, became an occasional side gig. it's nice to have some additional income, but it's the exact same situation as again, i'm completely self taught from this too.
if i got into a room with a recruiter, i genuinely wouldn't know how to even talk about my work as i feel i lack that knowledge. hell, i don't even know what i'd put under my responsibilities without it sounding like i'm completely exaggerating.

researcher here, writing my resume. forget all the great things you have done, what's are some of the worst design decisions you have ever made?
off the top of my head
1. early on, doing research for a physical cleaning product, showing a woman in china what i thought was a beautiful blue-colored dish soap. "she is like next that is not natural, it has dye in it, how do i know, i work in a factory that uses dyes like that. plus it is the color of our toilet cleaner."
2. irl - i checked a bunch of 4'x8' posters on a flight but forgot the flight was two legs and we needed them for the meeting after the first leg. cue sprinting through the delta terminal while my pm with anger issues nearly explodes because the posters were covered in what internal employees hated about their jobs at a huge financial institution.

how is your day to day as a ux designer?
this is one of the most misterious things to me, as an aspiring ux proffesional, because ux is one of those careers that doesnt have a structure set in stone, and there are millions of possibilities. 
i would love to hear what are your tasks or how is a full day of work.

when are you supposed to use workshops?
i've never run a workshop before and i just got out of a junior role so i was researching here and other sites. i saw a lot of how to run a workshop and such.. which i'm still not really familiar with. but the bigger thing is i just don't know when to host this and with who? 🥲

best ux practice for loading dynamic data in popup - react application
i have a react dashboard displaying all users with an edit button that opens a popup. this popup loads dynamic data, such as available procedures for the user, which can change frequently.
should i:
* fetch the data before the popup is opened (risking stale data unless a hard refresh is performed).
* fetch the data each time the popup is opened (ensuring up-to-date information but potentially slower popup load times).
i am having an argument with a senior in my office about which one to use. i have insisted that we are not living in the php static pages era. also, since we are using react, our admin must as well be a reactive application, even if that means using a little more of the server.
please let me know your thoughts.
https://preview.redd.it/r3y8l11hzned1.png?width=1024&format=png&auto=webp&s=1ddccf9e5ef5066a68c7e28af099cd2e5d7259e1

best tips for navigating brand identity with leadership?
getting internal alignment on new or updated branding has been a nightmare at every company i’ve worked at, from startups to fortune 500. hiring an agency seems to be the smoothest way to cut through all of the disagreements. anyone have tips or tricks on how to approach a rebrand internally? without fail, it always devolves into subjective debates around font, color, imagery, vibe, etc.

ux agencies and consultancies: what kind of work, what rates, and have you noticed shifts in client needs?
hey all—   
**how many others in this community work for/run their own ux agency/consultancy?**   
as the title says, i'm curious to learn from others in the space. specifically:   
* what kind of ux work you do (strategy? research? ui design? design ops? other?)
* if you're willing to share, i'd love to hear what sort of rates you charge for that type of work. 
i know a lot of us are independent consultants or contractors. but i want to focus on the agency/consultancy people who work on teams.(independent you don't usually have the overhead of other functions, like sales, account managers, colleagues in between clients, etc.)
**a little about me/why i'm asking.**  
i work for a medium sized product design agency. i've been noticing some broader trends in the ux specific agency space.   
for example, i have one hypothesis that design ops and strategy are higher value offerings and clients are willing to pay a higher rate for that sort of work. i hypothesize, especially buoyed by the emergence of no-code platforms, ai and the accessibility of design tools, that traditional ui design (think wireframes, prototypes, etc.) are becoming less valuable (monetarily!)
but i'm open to being wrong! 
**are you seeing changes in the space and the type of work you're landing (especially in the last year or so?)**
(ps, i don't set our rates— i only set our team strategy. so please don't misconstrue this as some thinly veiled pricing research).

colleague said figma is a waste of time?
hello, so i am fairly new into the ux world and i was asked to create a website for someone who does education consulting. i mentioned to my colleague i wanted to use figma to design the website and then create a case study out of it for my portfolio. they went on to tell me the “big” agencies they work for don’t use figma. (he also has never used figma). he mainly does shopify and uses adobe illustrator for graphic design. he told me everyone uses adobe suite, but when i look at jobs and take certs i see both figma and adobe. is it more work to use figma to create webpage layouts? i don’t want to just show shopify on my portfolio, but rather actual design skills and show how i was able to help my client. i would love some insight here. thanks

wearing different hats in design reviews
i run weekly work reviews with my team (we review more than just designs), and i'm toying with a new idea where we get to pick up different hats for each week.  each "hat" is basically a role with a pervue for the session.  i want to run the idea by y'all to see if you're doing anything similar, or have some good "hats" for us to try on.
my team is 6 designers.  for the sake of this exercise, we can assume that one person could wear a couple hats.
here are the hats i've drafted for now:
* moderator - not the one presenting, but the one who helps call on people and sort of conduct the meeting. this one is helpful to coach my team on running meetings.
* devil's advocate - meant to predict questions from stakeholders and product teammates alike.  looking around corners, and ensuring we've covered any knowledge gaps.  
* reseacher - look to understand the evidence we've collected to date, being considerate of limitations, can help capture open questons we've landed on to gather data around.
* architect - reviews for information architecture, system design, high level flow structure and segments, page layouts and interaction patterns
* ux standards - reviews for consistency and standards, like button placement, grid spacing, font sizes, as well as heuristics (system transparency, etc).
* accessibility - reviews for accessibility.  i intentionally broke this from ux standards as it can be a bit deeper.
this is all i have for now.  what'd i miss?

diversifying income
note: not sure about which “flair” to use.
curious what other income streams designers have other than their main w2 job. design related and non-design related. i work remotely so another remote income source would be ideal. just looking for ideas to secure myself financially. i’ve looked into additional design roles, but as we all know hiring is not good at the moment.

would you take an offer from a company with low ux maturity for a moderate pay boost?
i currently work at a stable ux job where i am part of a team. the culture is supportive, i feel like there's okay ux maturity, although i've started to feel like i am running out of things to learn. i received an offer from an equally stable company with lower ux maturity, there's a 10% pay increase but i'll be the only ux person on the team. i'm early in my career. is this a bad move? should i wait for a better offer? mentorship is pretty important to me so i'm hesitating.

any good resources for ux practices around b2b product and service marketplaces?
i'm currently working on a project that requires creating a 'marketplace' of sorts for b2b products and services. the important factor here is that the target clientele are not individuals who would peruse something like amazon/ebay and 'add to to cart'. instead, they are big institutions and businesses that are looking for customized versions of established products and services my company offers. the focus of the project is to create a self-serve surface that allows them to build a 'service request'. something that lands somewhere between a typical e-commerce website and just a 'contact sales' form (i know that's pretty much the whole spectrum, hence the desire for any resources to help me narrow this down).
if anyone has any good resources to share, it would be greatly appreciated.

where do you find clients?
upwork? locally? just curious

expected to a/b test every change - any advice?
in my company, some manager bought a 100,000k a/b testing software (without consulting the design team first). now, they want us to run as many a/b tests as possible because 'we need to work data-driven '(read: to justify the software investment). we tried to push this back with reason (basically every argument you could think of - you need a clear design hypothesis, the outcome needs to justify the time and effort, the user problem needs to be big enough, there is no need to test every single website change, etc. ) but to no avail. we are just expected to 'test' every change we make - without being able to spend extra time on it. to make it worse, any colleague (customer service, marketing etc.) can bring in their own test ideas which we are expected to help set up (with designs and copywriting). we do not have the expertise in-house to set up tests correctly - the person currently doing it, a cro, is not qualified to do so. i am not against having this tool in the toolbox - i want to use it where it is relevant. we proposed that we need extra time planned for this - let's do a pilot and see what happens - a designer needs to triage every test request - etc. but everything we say is seen as being ' unsupportive' since we are not already testing. what else can we do to handle this issue? like i said, there's really no reasoning possible and we're stuck. the most recent 'solution' from the management side i heard of is that they will hire a designer and place them outside the ux design team, which will solely work on a/b testing. which will be a disaster. i'd appreciate any ideas.

need your help to throw a experience pitch at my ceo directly for a new feature
so i'm a solo ux designer at this company and they have been receptive to allowing my to try to get a larger exposure to experience as a whole. rather than focussing on just individual features and pages, i wanted to look at the entire product. but for now they've seemed receptive to hear a pitch for how i would like for an internal feature/tool to be made and adopted. are there any designers who have any advice for me to keep in mind when pitching to such a situation? (i have no idea how it goes when you're left to decide what will be best for the lifespan of a feature or tool. i've remained within a bubble of just digital things and usually dont have much say in what might be better for the product at large.)

what do approvals look like within your design team? how do design reviews work on your team?
are you required to get approvals from your design superiors before moving on to reviews with dev, product and stakeholders? 
do you have design reviews with just your team? is it required? 
how is feedback set up on your team when involving just your internal design team? 
i'm currently trying to figure out the best way to configure our team's systems of approvals and would love to hear successes and advice from other people.

new job starting recommendations?
hi everyone, i just got a new job as a ux/ui designer at a fintech company. like many other companies out there, they have no idea what their ux designer should do nor is there an actual process or guidelines for deliverables. 
they basically order something randomly in the middle of the week and expect it to be done on top of the other stuff. i’m the only designer in product design btw. 
there’s no user stories, no assigned tasks in jira, nothing. i’m supposed to “self manage”. 
however, they’re very conscientious of these problems and are very open to new solutions in their work flow. in fact they’re constantly asking me if i’m okay with how things are being handled. 
so here’s my question: how should i begin organizing the design side including communication with product managers and developers? how do i establish a set of game rules that will make our job easier?

do we need "ux-hooks" in products?
i have been thinking about this for a long time now and i still have some problems wrapping my head around it. i come from a marketing background before i moved into digital products.
as such, i see a lot of ux design as the desire to solve communication problems (software in general solves communication problems either between software or between people).
what i have come to dislike a little bit about the process of ux design (as i experienced and learned it) is that it rarely optimizes for user growth or is inherently interesting. i think a reason for that is that most ux designers work under product managers, and reach is rarely earned by the product itself but by ads paid with money.
you can see the opposite in game design, where a lot of games have some sort of killer or iconic mechanic that draws the user base to it. a game needs to offer a unique idea from the very start. i'm unsure why this is not the case in most ux concepts and realizations i see.
the reason could be that many ux designers never had to learn (or are empowered) to make something "interesting" but optimize first and foremost for forming a habit (which is a super valid strategy).
from my perspective, product development often feels like, "we will build the product 'right' and then we use branding and advertising to get the users to use it."
i'm currently trying to understand if there's a framework to build "virality" directly into the product by focusing on specific delighters that actually might not be important for the overall ux but help to get users in the first place.
the underlying thesis i have with this is that with the ability to build new products faster with ai, software will move more into the meme space instead of being only about usability. a recent example i can think of was the lip-sync in musical.ly.
i also built an app a few years ago that let you scan election posters for all the important information about the politicians on them. the scanning was completely useless ux-wise (after the first use) but was the feature that got people to try out the app.
do you know of other examples, and can you maybe point me towards a framework that specifically focuses on that?

could a design manager effectively fulfill the role of a product manager?
since design managers are able to manage a team (people side), work with metrics and kpls to back decisions (business side), and are able to design with the user and business interest in mind, would a more managerial designers be able to fulfill the pm's role? if not, what is the role of a pm on a team?

i need help! is this a scam?
so i don't know how i applied to this company, but probably because i’m desperate for a job. been unemployed for 6 months. 
they initially sent me a google form with a bunch of 20 or more ux-related questions to answer and then two days later i get offered a job. 
they said i would have to go through a virtual 5-day onboaring program through their video conferencing platform where i can ask questions to the trainers and deptartment representatives. 
they said they would offer me an initial payment for purchasing equipment and software through their accredited suppliers.
hr just wants my info to finalize my offer letter (name, home address and contact number). i checked their website, it has a small agency feel and their linkedin and glass door. 
i’ve never had this experience before and i’m not sure if its just because its a contract role.
https://appliedimagination.com

is naming personas after real people bad?
i’ve made a habit of naming my personas after people i know or public figures, by doing two people and selecting one’s first name and the other’s last name, as i find it makes them more memorable to me.
for example, a persona i’m using for a project now is named max perez, after the red bull f1 drivers max verstappen and checho perez. there is no relation to f1 in the project, so the overlap wouldn’t be noticeable by most, if at all.
i’m not quite sure if this is considered a bad practice or if anyone has had problems doing something like this? sometimes i just use a specific last name and generic first name or vice versa, but i find i struggle with differentiating my personas when i don’t name them like this.
do any of you guys have specific ways you name your personas or do you just throw random names in there?

what has been your worst experience working w a developer?
let me tell you mine, 
my developers were so fucking lazy , my developers wanted to change the icons to svg  
i provided , but then only wanted the string code. 
now i provided that as well 
now they want me to shorten the string code and i did that as well. 
now he wants me to shorten the code and embed the icon properties 
ps: i work w three different dev teams , most of them work fine with me. we talk about the feasibility and and requirements well before hand never face any problems. 
the one in particular that i have mentioned: never complete the task in time , multiple delays and never communicate the requirements until the last day, then blaming me for it , luckily i have the client approvals and mail thread with their names mentioned which saves my ass but that’s the scenario

how would you handle adding new intermediate design tokens to an existing system?
hi all,
we have an issue at my current job, im wondering how you guys would handle this.
* so right now, we have spacing tokens 050-900 (050, 100, 200, etc...)
* we need to add a spacing token where the value would be between spacing-400 and spacing-500
how would you handle this?
1. add the new token as spacing-450?
1. could possibly de-emphasize (which is what we want, its a rarer value) and would require no refactoring
2. replace 500 and shift everything down one point on the scale?
1. might be a (for lack of a better word) "smoother" number, since there is only one other x50 value, and thats at the very beginning (small number that is also rarely used)
2. would require a lot of refactoring, anything that uses spacing-500 and up would need to be remapped.
3. i dont know how dev would handle this change, since some of those tokens are already applied to existing components.
if anyone has any further insight im desperate to hear it! thanks in advance!

showed up to an interview 1 week early
hello! i am interviewing for a job i really want at the moment. i got the dates wrong and showed up today when the interview is a week from today. this was logging into the virtual meeting wait room and no one was there. that’s when i had the genius idea to check the date. 
it has been a grueling 7 mos of interviewing and it is getting to me. i know ultimately this is up to the team to determine how this is perceived. but obviously i am pretty annoyed with myself. can anyone relate? have you done this and how did you handle it? 
there is a leadership aspect to the role so this looks super for me! (sarcasm)

how to connect with the team as a remote designer?
i’ve  been working as a solo designer on  contracts that were hybrid and am now offered to work remotely with a team of designers. i have seen that if coworkers don’t connect with you in person, it can lead down to a path of being kicked out of a team. of course i want to avoid that, but think it’ll be a unique challenge in a remote team. what are your tips?

best way to show long-form animated page design in portfolio
update: thanks for everyone’s replies. everyone was super helpful. the reply from justicehao (thank you so much), made me realize - i am going to test a no case study in portfolio strategy. as a very experienced ux/design engineer — they won’t tell my story. i am a non-traditional hire // i am involved end-to-end from concept to post deploy. my process actually does not matter to anyone but me. i work with 4-6 teams at a time and i slide into their processes - simultaneously. 
i am going to try a single page approach that goal is to get me a conversation with an exec or creative director - by making them curious and interested to talk to me. 
——————————-
i'm writing a technical case study for my ux engineer portfolio, featuring an animated landing page i designed. the page is still live at [https://www.beautylish.com/b/bioderma/pharmacy](https://www.beautylish.com/b/bioderma/pharmacy).
while i could simply direct viewers to the live page, i'm looking for better ways to showcase the animation content within the case study itself. the goal is to keep readers engaged without leaving the page. 
designers, do you have suggestions for effectively presenting long-form animated user experiences within a portfolio case study?

question for product designers
i’ve only been a ux designer, 20ish years under my belt. what’s the leap to product designer? do you have to manage teams and deliverables?

product driven cto trying to get ceo to understand user story to feature workflow process
hi all
context: small startup, no experinced product design person on the team.
cto here - ive been through startup land many a time and have been trying to scope a lightweight process to align our ml, engineering and new ui / ux design freelancers on a product spec. 
i also believe engineering should service design - and our job is to facilitate amazing experiences. 
to that end, im working with a smart, well meaning ceo who has good product ideas, but isnt able to effectively communicate a clear holistic vision, with specifics of how features work together.
another issue is our well meaning ceo goes into solving mode, without realizing his solves dont connect elsewhere, or dont really jive with the rest of what we have nicely.
im trying to help them help me (and the design / dev team) produce coherent features (features that all work in context of one another rather than in isolation) that can drive clear design and engineering requirements.
the workflow im used to is loosely something like
* user stories - distinct flows from a user perspective which provide clear goals in the form of as a ... i want to ... so that ...
* those get distilled and de-duplicated in to specific isolated requirements that are sort of 'atomic' - i need to be able to "import a file" with clear inputs and outputs
* then the design / engineering team can discuss based off of a map of all features to refine, propose solutions.
i can't tell if they think doing more detailed second pass work is beneath them, or they just dont understand the level of granularity needed and why.
i dont want to assume malice nor incompetence, i just think whatever im asking for isnt being communicated clearly enough, and nor is the importance of that so designers and engineering can reason about all the requirements.
does anyone have any advice, other than "bonk" ?
any good guidelines / overviews on why these product spec docs exist, what they should look like, and why? ive tried finding good resources myself, but i keep missing the mark, and want to give them the tools so we can all succeed.
i understand theres no panacea here, but im looking ways to get the lightbulb on so we all can really be on the same page with regard to product / design requirements. 
thanks!

no high fidelity mockups?
hi all, my team and i are looking to improve our ux processes. one option that has been brought up by our po is to avoid high-fidelity mockups. 
i can see how producing and maintaining high-fi mockups can (and does) slow us down. however, i am unsure how teams that do not use them collaborate to create designs. 
is this you? how do you do it? does it work?
thanks!

what does the workflow look like in a company on large projects ?
i took 2 ux design related courses at university, in both we learned about best practices on how a project is created. i was wondering if these workflows are the same on larger projects, or if you have any experience and how the workflows differed. 
this is how we were taught at university, according to the hcd process:
1) defining (problem description, task description, solution)
2) user research (identifying potential users, creating personas)
3) creating user scenarios
4) information architecture (card sorting, site map, user flow diagrams)
5) creating low-fidelity sketches
6) low-fidelity testing (testing with a moderator, tracking the error rate and difficulty of the different tasks that are defined in the user scenarios)
7) repeating steps 5 and 6 until the customer is satisfied or bugs appear
8) creating high-fidelity screens
9) testing high-fidelity (similar to low-fidelity but with more emphasis, writing test reports)
10 ) repeat steps 8 and 9 until the customer is satisfied or errors appear
11) delivery to customer/developer
this is roughly how i've done it on my personal projects, but once again, i'm interested to see how it works on large projects where the whole team is working on it. thanks for answers in advance :)

how to politely say "are you going to pay me? because i won't be able to work for free" and negotiate rates confidently with friends and relatives?
hi everyone, i am very luckily to be asked multiple times by friends and relatives to help them with design, such as designing a website for their small business. 
while a few people tell  me upfront they will be paying me, some people just asked me to help them design something. when people do not tell me they will be paying me, i am not sure what to ask/say and end up telling them i am too busy to take on their projects.
also, when people offer to pay me, i have a hard time charging them my regular rate because i feel obligated to give them a discount. 
i don't want to be a bad friend or relative :( but i have a full time job and a very busy schedule so i won't be able to work for free. i feel like it may hard for designers because some people may view it as a "hobby" (and don't get me wrong, i really enjoy design!).
any tips on what to do? thank you!

new to a product dev role. coming from ux ui design
in your opinion what aspect of the product development process can be done without involvement of user feedback/testing in a startup environment?

do you feel passionate and challenged in your role?
if you're feeling challenged what makes it feel challenging? 
if you're not, why?

designing for different users
hello! 
i’m interviewing for a company and i heard one of the common questions they ask after a portfolio review is something like: “how would you design this differently if we changed the user group?”
how might you approach answering this question?

cx vs ux
can anyone explain the difference between these two roles? i have a degree in ixd. the market is tough, especially for new grads. a company i applied for offered me a cx role instead of ux - saying they no longer had the budget for another ux.
it's a 6 figure aud salary, which is crazy for a grad role, so of course i took it. i'm just not 100% sure how my skills will transfer.

where do ux designers see others' work?
i know dribbble or behance, but in my understanding they are more like for ui or graphic designers, and most posts there are conceptual project, portfolios, landing pages or just not based on the real situations. i found a lot of fancy design works that really inspired me while making portfolio, but the logic, user flow, information structures are often missing.
do you know where can i find some real product interface? especially some b2b interfaces that people might not get easy access to.

pm says i should look at the roadmap to plan upcoming workload
my pm doesn’t plan with me. anytime we have a 1:1, i’ll try to talk to him about planning out upcoming work and priorities, and he’ll just tell me to look at the roadmap.
in the past, i’ve always worked with the pm to decide what to focus on first. we’ll groom tickets, add them to a sprint, etc. sometimes we’ll break tickets out into smaller user stories so it’s more manageable.
i feel like i’m being gaslit into thinking i’m supposed to be acting as my own pm / po and it’s driving me crazy.
can someone tell me if this is the normal expectation? was i just being handheld before? i want to do a good job, but i find it crazy how little the pm wants to help define upcoming work with me.

new eu ai act
hi everyone, i'm wondering how (if at all) the new eu ai act impacts the work of designers (those of us who work on ai-driven features/products). thoughts?

do any of you work at a place where design is well integrated into your agile processes?
i work in a startup. we’re agile in some ways, but somehow we cannot get away from working in waterfall mode when it comes to design. it’s exhausting and a huge pain for everyone. 
i just finished reading the book lean ux and the ways of working they describe are light years away from what we do. 
my question is… are those lean processes realistic? are there companies that work that way? do you (or have you ever) worked somewhere where you felt design was well integrated into agile?
if yes, i would like to hear about what worked.

best recruiting practices for hiring product designers.
for context, my company plans on hiring another product designer soon at an ic level with about 2 to 3 years of experience. i will likely be running the portfolio screen, behavioral interview, and case study presentation on my own (with another designer maybe).
was hoping to hear people's thoughts about how to best run the recruiting process, good experiences given or received, etc. hopefully the question isn't too vague.

a recent thread had me thinking… what jobs have you had that are worse than ux? i’ll go first.
knife sales; go-go dancing; dry cleaning; web design; web developer.

anyone constantly feel that they don’t fit in anywhere?
i’ve been in ux/product design for almost 10 years now and am currently in a lead role. every company i work at i go through the same thing with stakeholders and cross functional partners which is i’m hired to bring my experience and logic to the table but it’s always rejected. their confirmation bias always wins. what’s the point if bringing on experienced designers if all you really want is for them to execute exactly what is decided by everyone but the designer? 
i’m always left feeling like what the hell is the point of me being here if everyone else already knows how to do my job better than me? anyone else experiencing this? should i switch to product so people actually listen to me and take me seriously? it’s a bit maddening. and again i experience this literally everywhere i go.

who works for a design mature company (cdo / vp design)?
my whole career has been at mid-low design maturity orgs and it is sooo exhausting. design departments reporting under engineering or product.
interested to see how life is different in high design maturity orgs with design at the executive level.

i have asd and struggle severely with ambiguity…
i completely shutdown when given projects that lack any sort of clear direction or that are out of my products space. i notice these types of projects come from higher ups that constantly change things.
i get pulled in completely different directions with no area to focus in.
i do however thrive with a focused problem or product space. i have in the past taken control of defining the project, but that only works when there isn’t much of a time constraint.
is there a proactive way that i can communicate this weakness and strength that i have so i am best utilized in my role?

what do you talk about in your 1:1 meetings with the skip manager?
i want to use this monthly 1:1 time effectively with my lead's boss. what are some recommendations on topics i can bring up or learn about during these meetings? is it necessary to run through projects i'm working on? being a new designer, what are some insights i should focus on collecting or asking about?

management coaching
anyone in a management role here pursue a coaching service that they found useful? i can expense it to our company and we don’t have any formal coaching in our org.  i’d love to see how i can learn and improve people management & leadership skills.

need help with my first ever workshop
quick background: i’m a mid level ux designer (4yrs exp.) working at my company as a customer service representative. i took this position over others because the company is experiencing a high level of growth and was very up front about people moving into different roles. there’s already been multiple employees who have become team leads, moved into it, and other departments after a couple months after starting out as a csr. 
the company has no product designers so far but i know they’re hiring. i’ve had four people forward my resume and portfolio to the director of product but haven’t heard back yet. i’ve just been told to keep trying to make progress and prove my worth to be noticed.
yesterday i had a meeting with the head of my department who is wanting to start gathering data to understand our customers and their journey in relation to our shopping experience. i’ve broken our users down into three personas so far but have no idea what their motivations, frustrations, etc. are. i asked if he would be open to getting together to brainstorm what we know so far. he was very excited for it. 
i’ve been part of workshops at previous companies before but have never ran one myself. i feel a lot of pressure about setting up this meeting and making sure it’s productive. i really want to sell both my value as a designer and the value of ux in general.
if i had to say what my goal is for this meeting it’s “locate the different user personas we have and write down everything we know about them so far so we can have a better idea of what we know versus what we don’t. this way we can work towards a better understanding of their user journeys”.  i feel like now i know my goal, i just don’t know how to run this workshop to meet it. i’d love some thoughts, resources, and tips to make this meeting successful.

designers who deal with clients , how acceptable is it for you to not receive proper requirements (which keep shifting and the deliverables are being morphed and adjusted often weekly).
at my start up, our founders often say that's how you get hold of clients. by letting them have some free-run and requirements will often change or adapt. and that it's out job to remain adaptable and deliver on any changes. right now a lot of my work in the design as been picked apart slowly and changed according to their needs which  makes me feel like the ux or ui even isn't even important just that it should be anything they impromptu ask for. some of my best work was on the dashboard etc and they've basically turned it redundant by asking for a analytics text file instead which again changes in their queries.
i just want to know if this is just how it is or should i be recognizing the issues?  
bonus :- if you can give me some tips on how to have an easier time with stuff like this.

does a11y limit creativity and aesthetics?
i've always been an advocate of accessibility and try to make sure the juniors i get to mentor in my team are aware of its significance.
but then one of my mentees, who's a ui designer, asked me "doesn't ensuring accessibility limit creativity in terms of aesthetics?" of course i said no and was about to look for some examples to share with him that are both accessible and creative visually, but he showed me this - 
[a11y weekly email newsletter](https://preview.redd.it/g7a2yk1h1fbd1.png?width=1954&format=png&auto=webp&s=5c7b661a8f46a3c1f8da5bd12d79c42299c2a225)
while there are thousands of aesthetically beautiful email newsletters out there, a11y newsletter is most definitely not. it looks like a collection of links like the authors' websites in the 90s used to have. i have to admit that while it might be accessible, it doesn't give me as much pleasant experience reading it as say, a dense discovery -   
[dense discovery email newsletter](https://preview.redd.it/ef2zfsm32fbd1.png?width=2982&format=png&auto=webp&s=b88d2d998aeb3fd81140cfa2687033aac531dae5)
now, here's the thing, while i haven't tested either of these newsletters for accessibility, i don't believe dense discovery is any less accessible than the former. why do we often see outdated designs in the name of accessibility? isn't this discouraging for designers trying to adopt accessible practices?
at the end of the conversation, while i advocated and gave him examples of many aesthetically beautiful resources out there, my mentee didn't look very convinced.
and hence i turned to my reddit ux family to gain some insights and thoughts.

is anyone else struggling with their job hunt?
been unemployed for 6 months because of a layoff, can't seem to convert any interviews to offers. i keep updating my resume and portfolio but nothing seems to help. is anybody finding their job search challenging?

yellow buttons are not accessible - what nonsense rules has engineering told you
as a design engineer one of the first things i do with new designers is figure out the design rules they picked up from developers - that are bafflingly incorrect. a few years full of hearing “we can’t do x because of standards” makes a fairly traumatized and unempowered designer. 
it always gives me great pleasure to say - actually that is not true. today i heard you can’t make buttons yellow because it’s not accessible. it was my great pleasure to say - that’s bullshit // make all the yellow buttons you want. 
favorite absurd and untrue engineering rules:
- you can’t use italics because of performance
- designers can’t see analytics & metrics because of security
- you can’t use all caps is because it is yelled by screen readers
what weird things have your engineers told you you can’t do? what excuse did they give you (performance, security, standards, it’s not supported)?

senior ux portfolio 2024
i am a ux designer with \~7 years of ux design and strategy experience. i was abruptly laid off last year and so i didn't get much time to update my portfolio before my interviews with amazon, google and a few startups (in which didn't get past the behavioural and portfolio rounds). thus, reaching out here to see if anyone knows what the expectations are from senior ux portfolio in 2024? if you are someone who recently interviewed and passed the portfolio round, please share some tips. thank you!

do pms still make more than ux / product design at the same level?
do pms still make more than ux / product design at the same level? has that split gone away or gotten bigger?

how to achieve the best start in a new company as a sr product designer?
i will start a new job as a sr.product designer soon, and the company operates in the point-of-sale solutions field, "pos"
so, what should i do in the first 3 months at least?

ceo messing up my designs on figma while i'm off at work
just need to vent. the title says it all. my boss, who's also the project manager, messed up my designs on figma while i was off at work (weekdays). i just got back earlier, and everything is a mess—missing screens, missing components, etc. he messaged me earlier, asking where all the other screens go lol. 
i told him that someone messed up the figma file and asked who it was. we're the only two with editor access. he's not admitting it, which makes it worse. the screens are so unorganized, l lost all flow in productivity. hard to ask more questions and communicate with him, since he will either ignore me or say something that is not helpful with our conversation (shouting and putting the blame to me)
now he's flooding me with messages (i'm off work now) about the missing designs. this is my last week on the job anyway, and this person is probably trying to give me the worst week. i feel bad for the new designer who replaced me lol.
i have to suffer for 4 more days lmao
i wonder when i'll finally get to work with someone who truly values their designers. in every job i've had, whether freelancing, part-time, or full-time, it seems like all the managers and bosses are manipulative micro-managers. with seven years already under my belt in this field, i'm feeling burnt out. i'm not sure where to transition next.

what makes for a good design lead according to you?
i've been in the ux/ui design field since 2013 and enjoying it very much still. to my current employer (a large financial institution with over 80 designers spread across several areas), i've voiced my ambitions to become a design lead within a couple of years. this would be a logical step up in my career as i'm currently a senior.
so i'm wondering; what do you think makes for a good design lead? what core competences and soft skills do you believe are important?

looking for interesting design strategy / research courses for a mid-senior design strategist.
heyy guys!
i have a master's in design and i've been working in ux strategy for over 3 years now and i'm looking to upskill / learn about interesting topics relevant to my area of work. 
has anyone over here explored online courses / online certificate programs that specifically focus on strategic design, ux research, cx or innovation. 
i'm looking for courses that are intermediate/ advanced and are meant for mid to senior professionals? something that is ideally 6 weeks long and has live projects and peers.
1. how are the courses offered by ideo u? has anyone here taken the cohorts?
2. are there any other universities / entities that offer online courses?
3. what are the kind of courses you guys have taken?
the stuff that the nngroup offers is close enough but, they seem to be 1 or 2 day courses. don't really see any benefit in that.

how do you do design (and general) qa in your company?
i work at a small company of about 50 people, and we don't have a dedicated qa team.  
currently the process of testing and doing qa is an absolute mess and this often leads to shipping broken features with bugs and all sorts of design issues.
i am curious how other teams do qa and wether you treat design qa as part of the same process or differently?
i tried creating github issues for design and non-design issues that i found on staging for a new feature that we were releasing and almost all of them got ignored because engineering had to move on to another project and i was told that these issues will be fixed later!   
also i got a sense that our engineers didn't really like me poking around in github and creating issues for them 🤷🏻‍♀️
- what tools do you use? (for us it is a free-for-all at the moment, with some people filing issues in notion (non-technical folks), some in github which leads to confusion)  
- who is in charge of qa (in the absence of dedicated team)? we don't have a clear owner but cs is practically doing most of the work of finding issues.

asking all senior ux managers, team leads or designers here - what would you say is the biggest frustration when it comes to your job?
specifically, when coming to delivering a design, communicating to stakeholders or implementing a process or strategy effectively — what would you say are your biggest blockers at work? 
what are your frustrations within your own roles that are not working within the wider organisation that you feel limits your ability to deliver your best work (as an individual or a team?). tell me what your role is and what you find most challenging. i would love to know!

how to improve working process with product team?
i'm a mid-level product designer working in-house for the past few years. some things i've noticed since i've been here is that the product leads of their product typically don't write jiras for their requirements. they usually give requirements verbally, through message, or email. if we do get requirements, they're typically written by someone at a lower level who doesn't have the same historical knowledge or context as they do which leads to misalignment or inaccurate information sometimes.
another thing i've noticed is that design is brought in too late most of the time which leads to rushed timelines, exacerbated by the lack of clear written requirements. 
my leadership has asked me how we could improve the collaboration between product and design team and was hoping this community could give me some actionable insights to help our team. thank you for reading this far!

should i ask for a raise, or natural evolution ?
hello,
i am more of a product designer then a ux designer. i work in a rather big company, je have about 400 people, and about 12 products. 
i am a product designer with +3 years of exp, and started my job 2 years ago. i was supposed to work on one product that is b2c, but they now whant me to work for all different products, wich is nice. so we created a design system and i asked to hire an intern that helps me a lot. 
for the design system, we created a guild with a dev from each product to help with the ds, create components… they asked me to be in charge of it, create tickets, see how things are going…
should i accept that part ? if i do, should i ask for a raise ? what are your thoughts on the situation ?
thanks for your feedback !

roles on a team
i am the sole ux designer on an in-house saas(ish) development team of engineers, and qa analysts. to summarize: we have no one to lead our team or projects. 
a month after i started, the ux director who was leading our team left and was replaced by a new hire for a new role, chief technology officer. a month after that (now) our project manager who led stand-up and assigned tasks quit. one of our team members is filling this role on top of their existing tasks and it's not clear that it's temporary and this exact job will be refilled. 
and we are learning that our cto might be less experienced in product leadership than we'd hope. so far he just speaks confidently but has shown zero skills in leading the projects or team. 
i have about 3 years of ux experience and 16 years of related work/design experience, and just generally comfortable with leading projects but not so much managing people or dev teams. i am stepping up when/where it's needed but absolutely do not want to take on too much because of my low salary and really want to avoid doing the work to "prove myself" and hoping for additional compensation. i am also very happy with the role of ux designer.
in the case that the company will hire someone, what job/title would you ask for to help lead the team? what would you do if they don't hire anyone? let the team fail? when would you ask for a raise?
thanks in advance!

what do you do with stakeholders to learn about the business and its goals?
i struggle with this part of the process. i don’t always feel like i know what information i should be gathering. or how to make them feel like i’m as interested in the business as i am in the design or the problem (unfortunately i’m not so that might have something to do with it lol)

help crafting a product discovery document
hi all, i'm a senior product designer currently working on creating an artifact that i can use during stakeholder kick offs or general meetings.
i'm usually quite good at managing stakeholders and the project details, but lately with the amount of work, i need something to align the team, uncover the fundamental truths and plan best next steps.
so far i've created a general outline that i feel makes sense but would love any insight or feedback others might have. feel free to ask questions and i'm happy to provide further questions.
# project discovery document
* **what is the primary objective of this project?** question purpose: to establish a clear and shared understanding of the project's main goal 
* **who are the primary users and what are their key needs and challenges?** question purpose: to ensure the design addresses the real needs of the users. 
* **who are the primary stakeholders involved in this project, and what are their main interests and concerns regarding the project's outcome?** question purpose: to identify the main individuals or groups who have a significant stake in the project's success or failure. 
* **how does this project align with our business goals?** question purpose: to clarify how the project supports the organization's strategic objectives and contributes to the overall business model. 
* **what are the technological constraints and opportunities that we should consider?** question purpose: to identify any technical limitations or advantages that could influence the design decisions. 
* **what are the key success metrics for this project?** question purpose: to define what success looks like and how it will be measured. 
* **what are the immediate next steps we need to take to move this project forward?** question purpose: to identify actionable items and ensure that the project has a clear direction.
appreciate any support on this! thanks!

how to collect ux sentiment
i'd like to understand how the team is feeling about the new process, and how their feeling about the work they do, their job, etc. i am the lead designops for the team (18 members), and it can sometimes be difficult to hear from everyone, especially in a way that's comfortable for them. has anyone conducted something similar, or have something they can point me to?

what is the notion behind making the sign in button as hidden as possible?
https://i.redd.it/019pte4jtsxc1.jpeg

which job boards in are most popular for senior level job seekers in europe?
i will need to hire asap a well rounded, experienced lead product designer in central europe. hybrid but needs to relocate to germany.
i would appreciate help in identifying best job boards for seeking talent.

how do you hit the ground running at a job?
so i managed to secure a job in this crazy job market. it’s my first time in office since march 2020. in my professional experience i find your first week is either overwhelming or underwhelming aka nobody is giving you stuff to do.
my new job seems to be going by in the second direction and i know it’s just the first week, but i like to hit the ground running and i’m good at my job. 
i like being busy am successful at adapting to situations. i know talking to stakeholders and getting acquainted with a team is essential, it’s just hard to suss that right now because nobody really made time to explain when i’ll be literally starting in a sprint sense (i mean nobody even gave me design files to look over or throwing terminology at me…sorry ptsd from agencies). 
any suggestions are welcome!

how would a ux manager ideally work with a digital analyst?
edit: i got the job! thank you for all the advice ☺️ 
i have a final interview for a digital analyst role, and i'll be meeting with 2 managers, one of which is the ux manager.
my potential role is a digital analyst specialising in data for the e-commerce site for the company.
at my current company we don't have a ux team at all, generally a lot of jack-of-all-trades. 
so i was wondering what attributes, skills or characteristics might a ux manager positively look upon when considering collaborating with the digital analyst of a team? 
any advice would be greatly appreciated!

first time as a design lead
i've recently been offered the opportunity to become a team lead, which is exciting but also a bit daunting since i've never held a leadership role before. previously, i've always worked under direct guidance from others. i'm eager to learn and grow in this new position, particularly in user experience design, but i'm feeling anxious about how i'll perform and manage my team. i'd greatly appreciate any advice on how to effectively lead and make a positive impact from day one, helping the business grow and meeting user needs.

designers, how do you get to the core problem or opportunity?
i'm wondering can anyone recommend any resources or share their process into getting to the core problems or opportunities when dealing with cross projects and various stakeholders?
for more context my work is varied, mostly a mixture of business driven projects and experimentation projects. so it's never always fresh project with a fresh scope. i might be brought into a project halfway through as an example.
the project size varies also, it could be quite a massive shift directed from the business to a smaller experimentation idea from the data and insights team.
i was initially thinking of creating a simple artifact similar to a prd, that i could use on the various projects i'm brought in on to help capture the fundamental truths and figure out best next steps.
i hope this question made sense and appreciate any insight.
if you need more context into my role and the problems i'm facing feel free to ask.

another ridiculous amount of interviews - part 2
for those in my [previous](https://www.reddit.com/r/uxdesign/comments/1cbqgxg/another_ridiculous_amount_of_interviews/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web3x&utm_name=web3xcss&utm_term=1&utm_content=share_button) thread who are willing to go through such a miserable process, here you go; you can do it now with a lower salary. lmao
another company that reposted a job weeks after, and with over 100 candidates, apparently unable to decide with that pool of people. 
as you saw in the screenshot, this position had a 161k salary for toronto and 176k for sf a few weeks ago. the position has been reposted, and now the salaries are $152,500 in sf ny; and $146,5000 cad in canada
it's incredibly frustrating to see how some companies are willing to put candidates through such an unnecessary, expensive, inefficient, and miserable process. and now, to add insult to injury, they're offering a lower salary for the same job.
if you applied for a job, and you see it reposted, now you know a possible reason why.
.

what defines a top 1% product designer?
i'd like to leave the question open-ended so as to not skew the answers. but some additional questions may serve to frame the thought process behind the question.
* of the best designers you have worked with or known, what made them categorically different?
* what do you believe the ideal function of a product designer ought to be? or is it like the pm role, which is highly volatile in responsibilities depending on the organization?
* are you the 1%? if so, what do you find to be the greatest differentiators between designers?
* if you aren't the 1%, what are you currently working on that you believe would propel you closer to becoming the top 1%?

how to made these design in case studies uploaded on behance
https://v.redd.it/tf9jrjms5fwc1

is it possible for a start-up to succeed without ux?
i want to hear your thoughts and experiences.
is it possible for a start-up to reach wide market adaption of the majority and crossing the chasm of diffusion of innovation theory, without a user centered approach and ux-designers in the team?
&#x200b;

what do you do when a client wants to 'help'?
for some reason, we've got two upcoming projects in a row that the client insists on 'helping' with the ux or design process and i'm looking for advice on how to deal with it. 
one project is for a school website where they have 'kindly' provided a high-fidelity design for the new menu system and homepage ...made on keynote. the other project has a young optimistic staff member who once designed an app on a whiteboard and specifically asked to submit sketches of his thoughts where we can 'tidy up things from there'. 
i worry that if i completely shut them out they will be bitter about the whole process and resent whatever we design in prototype form. on the other side, i worry we will give ourselves more work having to review and explain their ideas. 
does anyone have any advice on how to manage these kind of requests?

another ridiculous amount of interviews
do you think a growth lead position, the seniority and the pay warrants this number of interviews? seriously, we have a problem with recruiters and hiring managers. this is another example of a company thinking they are a tech company and hiring like they are maang. while i support the cause, hey, mr hm, you just have a website. 
my wife, in a different industry, got a director role after only three interviews.

seniors: project organization
i’m curious: what does project organization look like for you? 
we all have multiple concurrent projects in different phases with different timelines. 
how are you keeping track of statuses, tasks, notes, etc? 
over the years i’ve used versions of: pen and paper; jira; google tasks; notion; figjam; and obsidian
none of them quite click. either too much maintenance/overhead or too basic. 
i’d love to hear what’s working for you all

linear app built $400m issue tracker with next to no marketing — here's how
*that’s the story of the fastest-growing and most beloved issue-tracking tool in the world with a $400m valuation, more cash than they ever raised, and cult-like following — all with just a $35k lifetime marketing spend.* 
*how the heck did they manage that?*
# 1. founders’ pedigree
linear's founders - karri saarinen, jori lallo, and tuomas artman - arrived on the scene with impressive silicon valley backgrounds:
* saarinen and lallo had previously founded a y combinator startup before selling it to coinbase, where both held early roles; 
* saarinen later also worked as a design leader at airbnb.
* artman was an uber engineering leader. 
as artman himself admitted, they "consciously took jobs in silicon valley to prepare for their next startup." smart move, if you ask me.  not saying that the founder's brand guarantees success (hi there, hyperloop). but those kinds of credentials give you an unfair advantage compared to beginning a sprint halfway through the race:
* thanks to their large twitter followings, founders managed to line up 10,000 people for the waitlist for their closed beta.
* and who were those early beta users, you ask? oh, just a few of the buddies from these little future unicorns like cohere, runway, and ramp.
* around the same time, sequoia partner came knocking with a $4.2m seed round because, "people she trusts in her twitter network were hyped about linear."
**lesson #1: do your founder’s homework.** the path to startup success starts way before your big idea — it starts from learning from the best, networking, building up your reputation, your personal brand, and your bank account.
# 2. the problem linear’s solving
in his time at airbnb karri saarinen noticed a strong negative sentiment towards the incumbent software in the issue tracking space (in other words, everyone hated jira).
so he created a chrome extension to simplify jira, and that extension took airbnb’s product team by storm. there was clear interest in simplifying and beautifying issue tracking. so linear aimed to solve inefficiency of existing project management tools for small dynamic startups, and specifically — for developers at those teams.
you can't be perfect for everyone, so when you create a tool for developers, it's gonna suck for pms. and if you focus on small startups, bigger companies won't use it — but that's okay.
linear focused on having product-market fit in small segments, and having it strong. as karri saarinen explains, in the first two years, they focused on, "getting the fit in the early stage startup segment" basically, the goal was to become the default startup’s choice — and that's exactly what they managed to pull off.
as they started getting larger companies, they noticed that "yeah, it's not really great for you right now, but let's work on it, making it better," and that is linear’s product-market fit strategy for the next few years.
**lesson #2: focus on your niche**
* focus on it as you’re looking for product ideas. don’t go for something really, really original. chances are, there's just not enough demand. instead, find an underserved segment that the big flexible players are ignoring. make something opinionated and tailored for them, and you have it.
* focus on your niche when looking for product-market fit. if you try to be good for everyone, you'll end up being good for no one. first win your segment, then use that momentum to expand. 
# 3. the product and design
legends say linear was born fully-formed from the sea foam one day in june 2020, embodying the beauty of product design. but the real story is a bit more down-to-earth:
* stage 1: idea validation, which took place yet in airbnb as you already know.
* stage 2: concept incubating.
* stage 3: collecting a waitlist and launching a private beta — all within just a few months of starting to incubate.
* stage 4: mvp validation in a closed beta for a full damn year, slowly onboarding those waitlist participants. 
* stage 5: only then did linear's software become publicly available. but by that point, they had a polished look and feel, over 1,000 customers and raving fan reviews.
we usually speak about linear as a design-driven company because of their focus on aesthetics and reducing friction for users. but the under-the-hood thing that really makes it a design-driven company is getting your initial concept tested on real users as soon as possible for as long as possible. linear still tests each new feature in beta before launching it officially. 
**lesson #3: get out and test.** ui/ux design is my bread and butter, and i can guarantee you this approach is worth stealing. resist the urge to hide in your cave and polish whatever you’re working on. let people help you. early feedback will save you from pouring hours into features or design elements that your customers don't even care about.
# 4. product-led growth traction
as a collaborative tool, like loom or figma, linear benefits from powerful network effects. one person starts using it, invites their team, which then invites other teams — making linear spread organically inside companies.
this, combined with linear's focus on delighting users allows the product to essentially sell itself through a bottom-up adoption model. no need to pour tons of money into ads when the app is winning over users one team at a time.
the network effects partially explains why linear has been able to achieve such impressive traction with a minimal advertising budget. 
**lesson #4: evaluate your product-led potential.** product-led growth can be super effective, but it's not for everyone. definitely not for some nerdy non-collaborative b2b saas tools. don't just chase the latest growth buzzword — the key is being honest about whether you have the right ingredients to make it work. 
# 5. compelling product narrative
do you have that feeling that there's something more powerful at play beyond the rational reasons for linear's success? it goes deeper than just creating a useful tool.
linear has taken a strong, opinionated stance on software development. they're in direct opposition to silicon valley's "fail fast", data-driven approach of a/b tests, kpis, and rigid teams.
instead, linear believes in craft, taste, flexible goals, and empowered individuals. and people who resonate with linear's cultural beliefs don't just see it as a product — they feel a sense of identity and belonging that goes way beyond functionality. for them, linear becomes the obvious choice.
this kind of soft power is what elevates great brands like apple and stripe. and it's clearly working wonders for linear as well. 
**lesson #5: brand is what you stand for.** not the colors, or fonts, or logos. if you make your beliefs resonate with the  audience, your potential gets supercharged.
# 6. the naming dilemma
product name “linear" doesn't seem to be the best choice. google search (reasonably) gives linear algebra results. 
linear’s team ambitiously expected they could beat the brand that’s dating back as far as 4000 years ago. in their brand guidelines, they state that “linear” should be used as a single word, (not “linear app”).
i don’t personally believe they can handle that competition (and i put “linear app" in the title so i don’t confuse you people) but the company strictly follows its guidelines with impressive self-confidence.
**lesson #6: everyone messes up sometimes.** even founders with coinbase, uber, and airbnb on their resumes are not immune. and that’s okay.
does anyone know how they ended up calling themselves linear by the way? i'd be sooo happy to see insider details in the comments🌚
ps. cruel reddit rules don’t allow me to accompany this text with contextual memes, and it makes me dramatically sad (just like dramatic dmitry with sand gradually falling through his fingers). but fear not. you can see the original text with all the memes [here](https://www.eleken.co/blog-posts/linear-app-case-study#toc-5).

how to impress your supervisor /pm
i am currently the only designer at a small software team where we develop proprietary inhouse software for the parent company. i am under the supervision of the pm. ofcourse the pm doesn't have any design skills to guide me and she recognises that, our relation is more colaborative than supervisor/designer. its just the comoany is so small (7 people, they just put me under the pm for businesses purposes).
mid year evaluations are coming and i would like to request a significant raise ( as i am still paid around 25% on the market median of where i live).
how can i make my pm's life easier and even impress her.
what i am currently working on:
- product roadmap requirements
- establishing a design system (based on the ui framework and material guidelines)
- documenting design principles
- introduce zeplin to elevate the handoff to devs
- design feature documentation (so all stakeholders are align for each feature on how it should behave)
- act as a scrum master when she is on leave (being able to run retros, dailys, measure team capacity etc.)
i will also ask her what type of skills she feels i could work onso i can start some courses on it.
is there anything else as designer that i can contribute to the team which will significantly improve the day-to-day lofe of my pm?
yes, i am already working on my portfolio if things don't go my way (as she is just the manager and doesnt dictate how much bidget the company is getting).
also for some context:
i got a bachelor and a msc (+various certifixations of various bodies).
almost 3.5 years of xp
already proove to her i can lead the redesignof an old app and the design of a new product. establishing a design system on our outdated legacy product (with the engagement of devs ofc) is the next biggest thing.

personal review process
so i would like to know from other fellow designers what is your personal review process when submitting a certain task? are there specific steps that you take or do you even have a certain checklist for example that you go through before replying to tickets?  
just trying to see different perspectives about this.  
(for more context, i'm a senior ux/ui designer working in a product based company).

7day vs 14day free trial. what has better conversion?
i’m working on an app that provides a subscription product that helps people advance their career. we are playing around with a free trial before a customer has to pay. what is standard 7days or 14days free. is there an industry norm? 
from a ux perspective i want the customer to play around and get used to product. or am i overthinking it ?

i want to hear your breakdown of your design process in agile two week sprint
let’s say that you’re given a task to design two brand new features within a two week sprint as a solo designer. what are you doing with your time to hit this goal?

refactoring our figma component library to leverage variables using primitives and semantics. liking it.
we’re a mid size scale up with a mobile app and web platform. we’ve built ux flows that are simple, clear, and follow intuitive cross-platform patterns. we’ve invested time in simplifying both the product and what users need to do to accomplish their goals. plus we stay close to our customers and have pretty standard instrumentation to understand how the apps are used, so are able to quickly zero in on friction. we’ve focused our efforts on delivering outcomes for users to a quality standard that’s exemplified by our reviews like 4.9/5 on the apple app store.
but, in maintaining a consistent pace of delivery with a lean design team and an expanding the product means the ui has grown some inconsistencies: similar but slightly different components, a few unnecessarily different icon sizes, occasionally different colours are used for text, borders, dividers etc.
now the product is growing in complexity and expanding into new domains. it’s time to refactor the ui to smooth developer handoff, build in a more scalable way, and smash inconsistencies before we expand the ui to be so large it would take a hundred designers to tidy things up. we’re a design team of 2.
among the first details we’re nailing down is colour. enter figma variables. up until now we’ve used shared styles in our core library with names like black-500. this was fine since we could set these up as variables in the frontend. the problem is when e.g. setting body text in a new screen, should that be black-500 or black-600? they’re both accessible on our background colours - so we’d just eyeball it. when you’re a lean team supporting 5 product teams and a marketing dept, done is better than perfect.
as of a couple weeks ago we’re making time to refactor our core library and tidy these things up - notice i said making time and not taking time, we’re still shipping. we’re keeping our core palette mostly the same, but have introduced new semantic colours with names like text-primary and text-secondary. now there’s no question what to use, whether applying to text, borders, backgrounds, specific elements etc.
we’ve also taken the same approach to spacing with semantic spacing variables we’ve given names like between-paragraphs or between-lists that are set to different units in a spacing scale.
this removes any doubt about what to use in the moment you’re selecting values in figma, without the need to constantly check guidelines or reference material. beautiful!
this is actually much easier to do retroactively. at the beginning, we didn’t know what we needed because we were discovering as we built. now, we’ve completed a ui audit with the help of some design-curious colleagues and have a view of the design patterns that have emerged organically - so we can just zero in on what works and remove what doesn’t.

is ux at the strategic table in your company/with your clients? why?
hi r/uxdesign,
i wanted to bring up a discussion around the placement of designers at the strategic table. in the company i’m currently working at we try to have a consulting type of role when talking to clients or in projects. this can be in design itself or in roadmaps or project prioritization.
i’ve seen some companies mostly do implementation or fully consultancy. my question is: what do you do and why? 
i believe being at the strategic table can be quite demanding and can sometimes diminish or slow down project work. but sometimes fully pushing pixels or projects can also do so.
what are your experiences and which do you prefer?

design system
hi group do you know a blog, web that have any design system figma course or other advanced ux ui corses thanks so much

consultants (and others) - how do you increase ux maturity in a rapidly growing company?
my company is rapidly growing, however we don't have to of work in the ux team and we aren't growing much either.
i believe this is because people within our company do not necessarily understand the value we bring. therefore i have started reaching out to some of the top people (which often get those contract conversations started) in order to understand what they understand about ux and how we could help them bring more value to our customers and ultimately bring more revenue in our team.
what do you do in your teams? or what does your company do which helps you bring in more work?

is there an union for ux designers where you live?
i was wondering because i see so many people reporting terrible experience at their job and how they're being treated, i see the state of the field and i'm just wondering if folks have been organizing. i'm new to the field (junior - mid after a career transition), so i'm still figuring things out.

why you don't need a portfolio to get hired
from the book "burn your portfolio" by michael janda

how to hire the perfect uxer
1. product has viability (series a passed mvp)
2. no portfolio requirement (best designers don't have them either bcuz busy or nda)
3. no take home challenge (they're bias and unethical.)
4. 3 interviews max (recruiter, hiring manager, and team that's it.)
5. candidate has industry experience 
6. candidate has solved similar business problem
7. candidate writes and is active in community
8. call candidates references and ask about their experience 
9. emotional intelligence: study their behavior, responses for empathy, humility, candor, and chemistry.
10. communication: how well do they tell a story and articulate clearly in simple terms?
do these 10 things and you'll hire the best uxer.

directors, what was your career path and whats your day to day like?
i'm starting to find myself more interested in influencing culture, higher level logistics, and getting into systemic processes and strategy at work. i'm wondering if i should be angling myself towards higher level management. as part of that, i want to hear from folks who are directors or know what that work is like, about:
* what was your path up to working as a design/ux/product director?
* what does your day to day look like as a director?
* what are some indications that someone would dislike being a director?
* what are indications a person would enjoy being a director?
thank you!

what activities does your team do for team and skill building?
for example our team will pick a lecture or podcast and then will have a lunch and discuss. 
we also have a book club for ux and product designer. 
i'm curious what other creative outlets that are similar to those.

percentages of designers across levels
right now my 110+ person design/research/content org is moving towards emphasizing delivery and i want to explore how that may impact our ratios of leveling. would anyone be comfortable sharing roughly your percentages of early-career folks, senior practitioners, and leads (and staff, if your org has such a role)? 
i’d also be curious if you consider your org focused primarily on delivery, or if you have other significant priorities your org supports (such as exploration). 
since we’re talking about percentages, if you could also share your team size that would help me calibrate if we’re comparing apples to apples. this is just for my own purposes and my own talent strategy artifacts i’m preparing, and i will not be citing names, employers, or anything like that.  
i’ll go first:
among our 115 person design organization, about half are product design ics (so not including research or content or managers), about 25% are lead, then another 25% are senior, 10% are a newly introduced level between a product designer and a senior product designer, 30% are in that non-prefixed product design level, and 8% are associate/entry level (meaning they probably were interns last year).

for those of you who conduct interviews…
what are the biggest mistakes you see from candidates? mainly thinking of presentation, behavioral, whiteboarding.

is there a job role as ux strategist, like in real?
so i'm new to the ux field. and i have heard this term a lot. however, not found jobs related to this. is it a thing?!

dear recruiters, do better.
currently looking for work, this does not help.

do you think 8-second rule is still relevant?
#uxintel #ux #design

what’s it like working at bigger places that have a separate design system team?
the place i currently work at has never been big enough to have a separate design system team. everyone has chipped in some way or another with only one person having 80% of their time dedicated to the design system. 
due to some fortunate circumstances in acquisitions, we now have a team of three that can be almost entirely committed to system building and maintenance.
for context there are 10 ux designers, 3 systems/ui designers and 3 ux researchers, all with varying levels of seniority. building and maintaining about 8 different products.
looking for insights on how larger places handle this operationally. is ux and the system handled separately? are they integrated? is there a handoff process between the two? i figured larger companies have this figured out already.
edit: we have a separate parallel dev team adding components into ui kits matched to the designers specs in multiple frameworks. dev is involved and ada vetted for compliance piece by piece.

need some help to think of a response : head of ux research told me to "google it" when i had a problem, and messaged our team chat
**i need some help sending a response (without being pissed off)**
as some background :
* i work for a high-street bank
* we log in and work via citrix for security reasons and various bits of our chrome web browser are locked down (i.e. can't get on certain websites, or use plugins)
* i did some user research and recorded the sessions on zoom, and need to download them.
anyway....
i asked in two different team chats if anyone had done this before, i.e. downloading videos from zoom, as it's not as easy as one might think. looks like you can only do it with a plugin or hacking using your chrome browser and the inspection tool.
alas what has annoyed me is the head of user research has done the following :
* hi \[name\] how are you settling in?
* love that your in our retail chat, but can you google things before asking questions?
* i.e. qq : does anyone know how to download zoom recordings to \[our local banking environment\]?  
i find this to be really unhelpful because :
* i'm facing a not so simple issue to fix, sounds simple i know but it shouldn't
* i'm using my initiative to be a "team" or "collaborate."
* this may surprise people but i did actually "google" how to download recordings on youtube too.
* i have 14 years of experience and being told to "google it" i find is unhelpful, unprofessional, and all-round awful leadership.
* you can even be new to ux, and you'd be put off with "google it."
anyway, it was gone 5pm when they sent it. i'm not replying to it. i will speak with one of my colleagues about it tomorrow.
this sort of stuff is not the thing you should ever write to someone via instant messenger as all the tone of voice is lost.
any ideas of a good response (happy to hear jokes too)?
i probably just want to confront her one to one and face to face, "that reply was really unhelpful, not welcoming, collaborative or any kind of good team building etc."
i look forward to the replies

capabilities vs complexity - saas tools
over the past 10 years we've seen an increase in number of saas tools for everything. many of these have grown to quite substantial sizes and have ever expanded their suite of functionality. the more functionality the platform has the more important the ux becomes. however, i've experienced that most of the time, as the complexity always increases and the web ui lags and ux suffers...  
to anybody who works at any of those big saas providers (i.e. salesforce, bamboohr, adobe etc.) or has some other related experience - i am curious to hear what you think on the following:  
1. do users struggle to discriminate between two similarily looking workflows? (i.e. in salesforce, the workflows for converting a lead into an opportunity and directly creating an opportunity are quite similar)
2. do users struggle to discover relevant workflows, becasue it was buried in a maze of other options? (i.e. i find email-to-case automation quite useful in salesforce but many of people i talk to don't know about it.)
3. how often does it happen that a user fails to discover a relevant workflow? does you company track those events and then tries to prevent them with ui improvements? 
4. how do you deal with feature discoverability by users? i imagine users may use your platform for workflow a without ever discovering that it can also help with workflow b, that they do manually atm. do you track some metrics on this?
thanks!

in a design systems; can a hero unit be other components than top fold content?
discussing naming schemes at work we came into a naming proposition: main version of component x can be called "the hero".
an example: you have a teaser element, it can be used as singe element or in a list of 2–4. the single version will be different from those in the list as it has a bolder layout and more metadata, like ingress or author.
a idea was pitched to call the single version tease hero and the list of 2–4 a teaser collection. the underlying concept being that all things meant to stand alone and be attention grabbing are heros and secondary versions of the same content are sidekicks, so you could have a button hero, an accordion hero, a contact card hero etc, so you would probably prefer to use hero items for your ctas.
what are your thoughts? would this naming convention makes sense, is it a valid naming scheme, are there better naming schemes, how does your system name things that can occur in multiple sizes/values/focus grabbing attention?

promotions
i see a lot.of people going from mid to senior or lead positions after their 6 month probation.
6 months is definitely not enough to grasp fully the company product, processes and the industry. how are the doing it?
anyone can share their experience how they got promoted after probation?

how do you define when a company is “doing ux well”?
are there markers that can be identified to determine that a company is doing the right things?
it seems easy to point at when companies are not listening to users or rushing through/skipping processes, but what metrics define when the company is doing the right things?
genuinely interested in learning. i can identify ways that my company is struggling and i want to take initiative and help solve the problems, but don’t know exactly how to take the steps to correct them and ensure it’s the right direction. would love any advice and insights. 
additionally if you have a method on how you help enact change in how your company does ux, i would love any knowledge.

how do you sell your services to small businesses?
i want to freelance in ux, but im having a hard time coming up with a short sales pitch/ summary of the services i would provide. for those of you that already freelance, how do you explain what you do? 
im just looking for ideas so that i can have examples of how to incorporate my own skills into my ux sales pitch.

crush tests for your ux designs
hi everyone,
how do you stress/crush test your ux designs end-to-end? i am trying to create a template/instructions for doing it with my team, but i am curious about how others do it, esp. if ux research is unavailable as a separate team.

most common ux problems in tech companies
as a uxer, in the last 1 year what are some of the topics you find yourself making a deck and presenting to leadership/stakeholders in your company about? 
some for me are:
1. improving sign up flow 
2. improving checkout 
3. user management 
4. overview dashboard/landing page for analytics product

paid time off and the fear of leaving work
anyone else suffer from not taking enough time off. i’m always hectic with a load of responsibilities but i always fear the workload i’ll have when i get back from holiday. we are a small team but work for a large organisation. yet the work is left for when i return. i never take full paid time off and worry i’ll burn out soon. but…. as stated. sometimes it’s easier to cherry pick a quiet time. last year i took 10 days off in a row and i came back to a mountain of stress and work.

a clear meaning of a case study?
i am a junior designer and i've been laid off recently because of "lack of work". thankfully, i was approached by a recruiter from a local company and i was able to get through two interviews and will soon have a third one with an expectation of a case study presentation in less than two weeks.
i have never written a case study before because it wasn't practiced at our school (or at least the terminology) and during my first job's interview process, i was not asked to show a case study, so i have no experience with it.
here is the question. i want to know is if a case study is your academic / professional work related product or project that is just structured in a certain way or if it needs to be an individual, new effort unrelated to past work or school projects? i've read through various examples but haven't been able to find a clear answer because it ranged from redesign of existing apps to newly ideated apps.

what do you call the highest level of repeated ux in a product?
there are well established conventions for naming smallest repeated ui (eg atomic design “atoms” to “molecules” etc). however, i’m not sure there’s a common term for identifying the most complex, repeated parts of a product that are well beyond ui components or design system scope. they tend to have their own ux flows, but not necessarily pages. common example would be login, but that’s usually a page. so, sharing, access controls, or document creation. ie, well established flows, patterns, and a combo of ui that recurs in the app, which designers don’t need to reinvent

brand colors or not ?
hello everyone,
i am working on an app for my company, and the brand just had a redesign, with a set of logo and colors.  
should i go for the brand colors in the cta, and other actions, of should i use a blue color ? is it ok to but a different color of cta and just put the color brand in illustrations ?
i prefere the blue color, but don't know why...
thanks for your help :)
https://preview.redd.it/b9gn1hsssntc1.png?width=1356&format=png&auto=webp&s=d52df88d8f09e1aa6a3ac3fd8ee58b48da4a430f

solo uxr on a team of developers and computer engineers…any advice?
this is a complicated project in an academic healthcare institution and my first job in ux. i  was brought into the project a couple years into its development, and requirements were never fully done. most of the products (web applications)  were already in production when i joined, but they only had one pilot group that was using them. feedback was not great from the get go and i feel like everyone on the team has been throwing spaghetti at the wall coming up with quick fixes ever since. i have to constantly advocate to include ux research in their decisions. a couple stakeholders understand and are more supportive of the ux process, but feedback and suggested designs often get shut down due other project priorities...although the priorities are rarely communicated.  i’ve learned how to choose my battles as i go along. project management and leadership don’t see eye to eye and i am recognizing this is an overall a failing project which just happens to be budgeted for at least two more years. if this was industry, it would have been toast already.  in my opinion, and based on research and feedback, management is making terrible decisions on next steps right now, adding in all sorts of extra data security measures that absolutely no user is used to using anywhere else.  it’s hard to sit back and watch management make these decisions, but i can’t fight how the team operates and recognize that maybe i don’t have all of the information about why certain decisions are being made. it’s a lot of setting aside any ideals of how the ux process should work and also setting aside my ego. 
i guess i just need to vent, although i am open to any advice.  i am currently getting my masters in hci and ux design and hoping my degree opens up other job opportunities. and i am using this job as a way to build my portfolio and just learn a lot. encouragement would be appreciated.

design systems
when starting a new project from scratch, at what point in your process do start putting together a design system?
for me it depends but generally after some mockups have been tested and i have a pretty good idea on how a various component will look and fit together, i’ll start documenting how and when elements should be used and updated it as it evolves. or when i have multiple designs collaborating on similar elements. what i have found that if i wait too long to start developing a design system, it never gets completed and i have a lot of design debt to catch up on as i get moved on to another project.

starting a new design project  vs working on an existing project
lately i've been having some struggles determining whether the design process of starting a new ux project is same as when a project already exists.
i think when starting a new project you need to understand who your users are, their goals and pain points. but what if the product already exists? does one start the design process with a problem in mind? 
e.g if a particular feature of an app is not used by most users
please i'd like your opinions on how it's done in the real world

workshop activity to iterate from research findings
like the title says, i'm planning a workshop in response to an audit of the current e-commerce product screen my team needs to redesign. i'd like to include designers, legal, copywriters and strategists but i'm not sure what workshop activity would be best.
i work at an agency for a client that is notoriously unorganized and difficult to work with. as you might have guessed, we have no design requirements, specific requests or a 'why'. the only objective we have from them is "less is more" and "convert users asap". agency life! 
i think what was missing in the previous sprints is that my team and i didn't come to the client with a strong pov behind our design decisions. 
can anyone tell me about activities that worked for you in the past? this design will be the first that they've seen. we've started some explorations as a design team but havent included other departments so we're in an echo chamber.

what’s your manager like when working in figma?
i have 3 years of working experience as a product designer. i have a manager that is generally, a pretty good manager. here’s what she’s not good at, imo:
very little positive praise. almost never starts with what is working or good. her method is to only comment in figma when something isn’t working or needs to be changed. she does so in a direct way, usually cold.
she lets me usually choose what to ask for feedback on, yet the reality is she wants to see literally every decision i make, even often times will critique on padding and margins. she does this for other designers, too. 
she does have a trained design eye, obviously more than me. 
also, she cannot use figma. like when it’s comes to auto layout, she cannot grasp it. can only mock up very basic concepts. 
as a result, i’ve been feeling like a pixel pushing monkey and i’m sick of always needing her to okay everything. 
it’s really sucking the joy out of the job and the grind is wearing on me. i’m concerned about this. 
okay so, 
is this just what working in this career means?
are there managers out there that don’t do this? 
what would you do?

is it possible for a sr frontend engineer to become a design system lead/manager?
hello, i've been a frontend engineer for a few years and have a keen interest in design systems specifically. currently, i only spend a portion of my week (around 15%) organizing and distributing tasks to engineering and design teams. i would like 100% of my time to be dedicated to creating and managing design systems, whether it's coding or designing in figma.
do you think it's possible for a frontend engineer to be hired as a lead/manager of design systems?
p.s.: i've already tried discussing within my company about having a dedicated ds team, but they still don't see the value in ds as a product and aren't likely to change their minds anytime soon

hiring managers & recruiters that are currently hiring - what is your side of the story?
cheers,
dear leads, managers & recruiters that are **currently hiring** or looking to hire new ux/ui designers,
i recently see a rise of topics about applicants having frustrating experience with the application process in the current market. i understand that it can be very frustrating to not receiving the expected results. 
however, im also curious about the other side of the story and want your unfiltered feedback as a hiring person to understand the bigger picture and core problem.
team leads, hiring managers & recruiters that are currently hiring:
- **what is your experience?** (how does the current market looks like from your pov?)
- **what are you frustrated about?** (what are your biggest pain points?)
- how many applications do you get on average? (and how many pass to the interviews?)
- what are the main reasons for declining or not responding to applications?
- if you could change or improve one thing about the application process, what would it be?
sidenote: do not troll, be polite and respect recruiters experience even if it may not align with your personal point of view. every experience is different.
the goal of this topic is to collect unfiltered feedback from the "hiring" side.
heres a digital cookie for your feedback: 🍪!

are decisions made without you?
https://whydesignishard.substack.com/p/are-decisions-made-without-you

beyond early adopters: how ux helps startups reach the mainstream
i'm exploring how to effectively communicate the value of ux within startups. my hypothesis is that ux plays a critical role in achieving mainstream adoption for innovative products.
**the challenge: reaching the mainstream**
many startups struggle to move beyond early adopters and reach the mainstream market. this gap, often referred to as "crossing the chasm," requires a shift in focus.  while early adopters prioritize being first, the majority market prioritizes ease of use and clear benefits.
**early adopters vs. the mainstream**
* **early adopters:** driven by the "reflective" layer of emotional design (reflective thinking), they prioritize being first to use new products and are willing to overlook usability issues.
* **mainstream market:**  driven by the "behavioral" and "visceral" layers (ease of use and intuitive design),  they need clear benefits to justify re-learning existing mental models.
**the importance of ux**
when a startup's product concept is too revolutionary and doesn't align with the target user's mental model, ignoring ux can hinder mainstream adoption.
* **conceptual model mismatch:**  if the product's way of doing things requires significant re-learning compared to existing solutions, even strong benefits might not be enough.
* **ux as a bridge:**  solid ux research and testing can help ensure the conceptual model aligns with the target user's mental model, or at least provides clear guidance to overcome the learning curve.
**beyond early adopters**
while marketing, being first-to-market, or lower prices can drive initial adoption, long-term success requires a focus beyond early adopters. we need to consider the entire emotional design spectrum - ensuring the product is not just conceptually sound, but also usable and visually appealing.
**conclusion**
by prioritizing ux and bridging the gap between the startup's vision and the user's mental model, startups can increase their chances of crossing the chasm and achieving sustainable mainstream adoption.

content design: how to get buy-in from the execs?
i’m a content strategist in fintech. i am looking for examples of how content teams have overcome the common challenge of a design-first, content-second mentality at a company. where i work now: the design leadership team verbally advocates for content but doesn’t back it up much. ui is designed, then at the last minute before development … “can you add copy?”
any suggestions appreciated! would love to advocate for content and design collaborating from the start.

how do you deal with the back and forth with business teams?
hi designers. one big challenge in my design process is communicating and aligning with business people especially when it comes to big companies. i would like to know if you have similar experience and how you tackle it.

how to convey the ux design process
looking for some genuine advice here. first and foremost i’m a contractor working as a ux lead for a big international company and i’m running into the issue where leadership is actively working against me in terms of letting me speak to the client… i’m tasked to design and propose this huge digital supply chain transformation and at every turn, i have been told quite literally to not speak to the client directly. from the clients side, they have said they want to talk to me and the others within the design team. 
as you all know, the design process from conception to wire frames takes a lot of communication and a lot of back-and-forth, my leadership is essentially wanting me to play telephone and have that info as you all know, the design process from conception to wire frames takes a lot of communication and a lot of back-and-forth, my leadership is essentially wanting me to play telephone and have that info trickle down to knowledge trickle down to design. which is incredibly frustrating for me because i need this job and i feel like they’re actively fucking it up for me.
there will be a meeting held tomorrow where leadership will discuss “communication protocol” any pointers on how to constructively and professionally convey my views to them? at this point in the process, i’m quite emotional and feel i will blow up on these guys. anything helps. thanks ahead.

job descriptions
i know a lot of us complain about bad job descriptions. i'm in a position where i can write good ones. does anybody have examples of good ones?
what do you want to see?
what do you not want to see?

spec work is not okay at any level
it sucks to say no, especially when you need a job. i'm a past vp and freelance director. work is slow so i'm prioritizing finding full-time again since i need steady income sooner rather than later.
i was having a great experience with a series of interviews for a role that sounded interesting. yesterday i received an "exercise" to complete that was directly related to operating their line of business, even wanted me to use their deck template. it felt uncomfortable because of the risk that my ip could easily be leveraged by the company. 
i offered to share a case walkthrough for a past company i've managed, they declined the offer, so that's the end of that. unfortunately i'm still on the hunt, but this type of predatory practice to me is telling of the company itself. 
i guess i'm posting to say that no matter what level you are applying to and how much you want a job, stay safe out there. this practice is happening to more than junior designers. don't let yourself be taken advantage of.

is this normal?
i've been a product designer at my current company for about a year and a half and i started right out of a boot camp. for context the company is around 500-600 employees and i work with a design team with 3 other product designers. 
for about the first 9 months things were going great. i loved my design team (one of which is an amazing designer and taught me so many things). the only problem is that the ceo micro manages everything. and since everyone is scared to upset the ceo, it really destroys any semblance of structure or process. the designers will go through weeks of designing to make sure we create the best, and most modern  solution for the user and even after it is approved by the head of design, developers, and product managers, it's about 50/50 whether the ceo will hate it or not. i've personally worked on projects that took months and was approved by everyone up to him before he goes on a tirade saying it was awful and that if i wanted to keep my job i needed to do better, before he then backseat designs something that looks like early 2000s malware. 
at first this was manageable but recently my best friend at work was fired without warning because he pushed back on an idea from the ceo that would have been an absolutely terrible experience for the user. and now me and the other designer are taking on twice the work and are so demoralized that we feel we can't even give our opinion on ux anymore for fear of our jobs. 
i want to look for something else but i'm scared of getting somewhere else just as bad. is this normal?
edit: just to clarify, this is not about designs being scrapped or not liking the boss. the issue i am having is that i feel like i am not allowed to advocate for the user whatsoever and not being trusted to do my job.

am i being pushed out or in?
hi fellas, i work in a big tech company and just had a yearly review with my boss. it was a very deep and long conversation, i’ll spare the details. some positive things, some negative.
bottom line, i’m expected to take a big leap in a short time in some areas (namely proactivity and business understanding).
i was told that they have an expected expertise level from each team member, and that currently i’m not meeting it. they also said that they wouldn’t tell me that if they didn’t believe i could meet that expectation.
thing is, they also asked whether i was happy in my current position and if i was considering moving since they feel like my motivation is currently low. they assured me it’s their honest worry and that if i told them i’m in it with them then they’ll take it as such.
so i’m trying to wrap my head around it, do they want me to lead and take an active step, or do they want me out? i don’t understand..
thank you for any opinion 🙏🏼

how to deal with legacy software systems and fixed-minded devs
i started my job as a ux designer in a small tech company and the product that i am currently designing is a retail pos system. the aim is to make the software sellable and easy to use, so that more customers can sign up to the product. however in my first month into the job, i have encountered certain issues:
1. the software's interface is too old-school and complex to use at first glance (imagine ui in 2007ish!). this is a legacy software that was "forcefully" brought into life after years of hiding it. which means, a lot of the user flows and interfaces are already outdated compared to today's standards. while i attempted to propose a totally new interface and flows, it was quickly dismissed by the business/project manager and devs, stating that the devs will not have enough time and resources to implement the changes, which brings to the 2nd issue.
2. the devs are extremely adverse to changes. i am not sure why, but there's only one coordinator and one dev working on programming the product (in legacy c#!!) and according to them, it will take 2 weeks to move two buttons from one side to another and everything is hard-coded, therefore they will not accept any functionality or flow changes. plus since it is on legacy c#, there is no way to add new functions due to the limitations of the language.
3. the copywriting for all options are screwed. it might make sense for the programmers and people who are used to the complex system, but if i feel uncomfortable with the wording, i doubt the future customers will be making sense out of it.
is it normal for enterprise software like pos system to be complicated for usage? how do i convince the devs and managers to switch over to new interfaces? else do i really have to suck up their complex and conventional designs and design within constraints?
i really feel bad because this product is not on par with mainstream pos system like lightspeed, odoo or square. the current customers are all small enterprises who are all not as tech-literated and think that complex system is the way to go (even if they accept it they still have to undergo hours of tutorials). the complex system has already chased away future customers, but with the current team, i doubt nothing much will change.

usability test with some old and some new ui
how bad of an idea is it to conduct a usability test for an app that has some old ui and some new. the new ui is mostly changes in branding/color theme. we are in the process of redesigning the app and ideally we should have performed testing before the new designs were implemented or maybe after the whole app was redesigned but the management wants some data asap. we will be testing the app with 7 users and making them perform some tasks on each page of the app. what would be the best way to go about it?

hi ux, how can we devs get y'all involved in open source projects?
hi there. i'm a long time tech org professional. i started as a dev, but have been in leadership for most of the past eight years with dev/design/and product reporting to me. one of the things that has been interesting to learn managing the three groups is how different the professional development looks for the three.  
in my experience this comes from the fact that ux and product are forced to compete with each other for development resources. this in turn makes collaboration more difficult, and thus the mentorship from senior ux folks to more junior ux folks more challenging. add in the pressure cooker of business, and it's no wonder the number one complaint i got from my designers was a lack of professional development.  
which brings me to my post here about open source. there's a huge pool of developers making a whole range of things, and much of it looks like garbage, and will never be used by anyone because we have no idea how to build a good user experience lol. 
i'm wondering how we can make it more inviting/appealing. i've searched this sub, and there's a little interest, but the entire industry operates with eng, pm's, and ux, and it feels bad that one whole sector of it just doesn't have much representation from two of the groups. so my question is, is there a way the os community can make itself more welcoming/appealing to you as designers?
anyways, i've rambled on long enough. i can't invite y'all to anything per the rules, but if you're interested in finding a community of open sourcers, feel free to dm me.
edit: wowsers!! i was not expecting anything close to this level of interest. clearly this is something we need to do a better job of opening up to the broader digital community. 
i believe i’ve dm’ed everyone a link to our discord where we’re building an os community. even if you don’t end up joining us long term, feel free to dm me questions about os you might have as i’d love to see more people involved. 
thank you all for your interest! it really made my day. on the discord i’m planetnineisaspaceship, and feel free to ask me any questions there too.

examples of "productized" ux platforms/experiences?
i’m trying to find an example of a named or specifically-named experience philosophy or platform that is independent of the product philosophy.
kind of like apple’s mac ventura os or android's cupcake, but i’m thinking those are product/os names and not reflective of the underlying experience name, if that makes sense.
if i look at it from the pr side of pr-faq the headline might be, "company launches new (name here) ux experience."
who's seen this done this before and what was it called?

sole designer in team
do you as a sole designer in your team share multiple design options to your product manager for every feature your work on? or do you come up with multiple design ideas and in the end share only the most feasible one with the team to save unnecessary discussion on other design options which you think will not work well ??

any method to test designs rapidly
hey designers, during your design process before your get to a point where you prepare beautiful designs to test with the actual audience, is there any way to quickly and repeatedly test your designs? are you aware of any tools?

ui/ux team about to be disbanded, how to talk my way back
my company underwent reorganization (mainly from b2c to b2b) and they plan on disbanding the ui/ux team consisting of 3 members. not to say that the position too is dissolved but i will need to explain to them (mainly members from business development who frankly doesn't know shit about us) what values can we bring to the table before things get worse. 
how would i go about it, and how can i frame the narrative so they are able to understand that we are more than just making pretty design?

what do you do when developers do a very poor job of developing your design?
i have been very frustrated with my primary product designer role, especially as we have been re-platforming our mobile app this past month. most of the frustration stems from developers doing a piss poor job and never paying attention to design notes, or really seeming to care about the design at all. i'm about at the end of the rope with my current job. when developers tell me that it's too difficult to center text in the header, i just. fuck. i am extremely frustrated and it's just looking like it's time to find a new job. when the developers are incompetent and the product owners just sweep it under the rug, "we'll get to it next sprint." yeah. any ideas to salvage this role would be helpful, but i already think it's time to look elsewhere.

my team lead said that it's unacceptable for me to ask for acceptance criteria for a project. is this normal?
as a designer with 10 years of experience, i have never faced an issue like this before. whenever i start a project, especially when it comes from a top-down request or feature suggestion, i collaborate with my pm and dev lead to establish acceptance criteria. this helps me understand the scope of the project and what we are and are not supposed to do. 
for context, acceptance criteria for me is determining the scope of the project, what we can/can't change on a feature, and what we're hoping the results will be from the feature request/implementation. the rest (design, research, solutions) is up to me. 
however, my team lead, who is also the dev lead and co-founder, got angry and complained to my boss that he shouldn't have to come up with acceptance criteria for me from a dev perspective. he believes it is my job as the ux designer to come up with it. 
the problem is, whenever i come up with it, he pushes back and says it's unrelated to the scope of the project. 
so, i'm confused about what the responsibilities of a ux designer and pm are. in my experience, the pm has always coordinated feature requests and the design/research has been my responsibility. 
however, now they expect me to come up with the features that need designing and determine the project's scope. 
is this normal?

adhd ux - advice on organisation tools?
any ux designers with adhd, what tools or coping strategies do you use to get stuff done? 
i’m 1 month into a new product team and i’m feeling at rock bottom career and confidence wise. looking for some helpful tools or tips that might help me organise my thoughts or actually be able to get stuff done. 
the new team i’m on owns a large page on the website and crosses over with other teams who own individual elements on the page. there are lots of different goals/strands of focus within my team for the quarter which i’m finding confusing and then also within each goal there are millions of large tasks that i’m struggling to break down or know where to begin. 
my low confidence, impostor syndrome, depression and anxiety are kicking me into a bit of a bleak place and i was hoping that organising my thoughts in some kind of way and breaking down the tasks into bite size tasks would help me feel less stuck and overwhelmed.  i’m struggling a bit with notion so wondered if there were simpler alternatives 
thanks in advance

startup has me drowning — need support
not sure if this is allowed but i desperately need a good rant and some support. happy to delete if it’s a problem. 
i joined a startup as their founding designer a bit over a year ago. initially it was great for the first three months, i felt valued and listened to. our first product deadline was absolutely insane though. two weeks to design and build a full product filled with complexity. after this build they swore this wouldn’t happen again. this has been every deadline since.
every single deadline is not agressive, but impossible. i’m talking repeatedly giving me four days to design full products with all breakpoints. with rollouts back to back so i don’t even have a moment to breathe. i’ve pushed back so much but to no avail. 
initially i was so excited but the concept of the product and the team that i had enough stamina to keep going but i have been sprinting for over a year now with multiple months continually working 12-16 hour days, pulling more all nighters than i ever have before. i’ve worked in plenty of startups as a lead designer or a sole designer but this is intenable and a new extreme. 
they’ve maintained an external design company for branding (which i welcome as i am not a brand designer) but it has been two years and they have yet to settle on brand guidelines. 
i have also been scoping out the product as well. i’m so exhausted and i feel the physical and frankly emotional and mental toll it’s taking on me. having to constantly churn out half baked designs and making critical ux decisions with a brain that feels like it’s barely functioning at this point— it’s killing my confidence as a designer and i’m feeling so hopeless. ive had to go back into therapy because of this job. 
i have been incredibly vocal and communicative about both how stressful this is to me as a person but beyond that, how awful it is to the product in the long term. i’ve been in the game now for 8 years, and while i have more to learn, as i hope to always have, i feel confident in my abilities as a designer and product thinker— but i feel continually set up for failure at this point. they told me to trim as much fat as possible and when i tell you the fat has been trimmed.  we’re talking, nothing nested, no components made (i’ve implemented a pre-existing library but there are no states and plenty of bespoke components still need to exist given the product), no guidelines or documentation. everyone has to work off of assumptions. i’m trying my very best but i have cut so many corners. 
beyond this, i love the team and the product is compelling but for the work i do, at the speed i do it, the company head makes me feel so unvalued and the management skills and prior leadership experience are questionable.
i know that i need to leave but i barely have time to come up for air and i love the rest of the team so much i don’t want to put them in a very tough position by leaving. but i’ve been setting down boundaries and they have been continuously disrespected. how in the world can i carve out time to recover and update my portfolio and resume? i give plenty of good solid advice to my students and mentees i but i’m having a hard time listening to myself and could really use some support after trying to advocate for both myself and the product so many times onto deaf ears.

my ego, startup drama, and burnout
my story might be a common one. you pursue a career as a ux designer with the intention of enhancing user experiences, only to discover that 90% of your time is consumed by seeking buy-in or clarifying the concept of ux itself. to make matters worse, your designs either never see the light of day or you’re made to create experiences that disregard user needs.
here’s my story. i’m curious to know what others have similarly experienced and how you overcame it.
-
the job market isn’t the greatest right now, and it isn’t the friendliest towards junior designers. i’ve been job hunting for almost a year now and had to pick up a full time job working at a restaurant. in order to keep refining my ux skills and add to my portfolio, i picked up a 9 month contract job as a product designer at an early stage startup. 
it’s been 6 months now, and needless to say, it has been a mess. their previous designer had quit, leaving me to pick up where she left off as the sole designer of the team. the main problem was that the company couldn’t find a product-market fit and has pivoted multiple times. 
as a designer, this has been incredibly frustrating. i’m constantly pressured to produce designs from scratch and rapidly so they can pitch their ideas immediately. without a defined target market, i’m tasked with creating new platforms and features to cater to various needs and desires.
recently, i have been extra vocal advocating for a more user-centered process. i wanted to help bring clarity by using my ux skills to identify a primary persona so we can design and prioritize solutions that meets the needs of the user best. i drafted a timeline and a research plan. the pm and cto gave me full support, but the ceo did not take my initiative very well. he argued that the core reason the company ideas were a mess was because everyone had different ideas that were not his. he ended up firing both my pm and cto for having a different vision than him. 
without anyone in leadership backing me up anymore, it’s been really stressful.
because my manager is no longer a part of the team, i’ve been reporting to the ceo. he micromanages and doesn’t like it when i challenge any of his ideas. at every team meeting, he would comment on others work saying, “good job, this is amazing because i came up with the idea and you executed exactly what i wanted.” i can’t help but feel he is directing those comments at me. it’s a pretty toxic relationship right now. 
it’s also frustrating when he insists he knows ux design better than i do. my ego takes a hit every time he dismisses the importance of accessibility or reacts with eye-rolls and scoffs when i remind him that he doesn’t represent the user persona. 
i want to create good ux work because that’s what i’m passionate about. i’d ideally like a project for my portfolio to help me find a job in the future too, but i’m not sure how i can do good work if i am not given any autonomy over my work. 
for now, i’m tired from standing up for myself and need the money. i made it clear to the ceo that these are his ideas and also his money. if i need to just pixel push, then i can do it. but wow, it does not feel good to graduate with a design degree and be treated like a starving artist.

async feedback processes
i’m curious to see what designers here use to collect feedback from different teams, besides jumping on a call with a big group and getting overwhelmed with the feedback. any fun feedback collecting tips? thanks 🤩

question for the veterans (ageism)
question for people of my vintage 45-55 (or late millennials and generation x if you want) have you seen much ageism in relation to job hunting? is it as much of a thing as some suspect? or are some of us reading too much into it and blaming it as the reason we weren’t hired when it had nothing to do with it.
personal experience, i’ll be 51 this year, i remember when i was in my early to mid thirties hiring, and there was definitely a few people getting uncomfortable if an older person was being interviewed ie someone my age now, and the tendency was to go with the person who was a ‘fit’. ie someone who would go for beers after work, would play five a side football after work etc. with the team, or someone who didn’t feel like their parents.
now that i’m this vintage i can’t help but feel something similar was happening when i interviewed with companies.
reason i bring it up is jane austin wrote an extensive post on the hiring process being broken on linkedin, and the major point that got the most reaction was ageism.

influx of inexperienced uxers at my job
my org’s ux team recently lost one of its senior designers - one of the nicest and most thoughtful, and efficient designers i’ve met whose work has helped us win awards. we’re backfilling the position, but leadership wants another junior designer, instead of an experienced designer. 
no shade to junior designers - i was a newbie when i joined too - but our team is now entirely junior designers (considering myself to be included). our leadership are technically senior designers, but afaik the entirety of their ux education and experience has come from working in our org, and kind of transitioning into ux from other fields.
the strategic reason for only hiring juniors, i’m told, is that it is more difficult to train senior designers in our unique way of doing things and out of the habits they’ve gotten into at other orgs.
so now, we’ll be a team of 5 or so designers, but with nearly 0 experience of working or practicing ux anywhere else but college/internships, or at this org.
it seems a little shortsighted to me, because we’ve been experiencing a lot of growing pains, inefficiencies, and process challenges as a team, and it seems like leadership just doesn’t want to have to butt heads with someone who has opinions about the way ux and product management should be practiced (this is more or less why some of our experienced designers and others in our product org have been trickling away).
for others who’ve been a part of building up design teams: does this strategy make sense? are senior designers just harder to manage/train?

career progrrssion
i am seeing a lot of linkedin profiles of designers that manage to go from couple months of xp in design directly to senior and design director roles. (including maang companies).
am i missing something? how some people with no educational background in design, maximum 1-2 years of xp are able to land such positions?

setting up the ux process
how have you worked past/present in a ux team? when has ux (as a process) worked well in the business?
i have the challenge of setting up a ux process and way of working in a large business. it’s been a bit of fun reflecting on whats worked in the past and researching what’s latest in field. let me know below!

management by toddlers
inflammatory title for attention. posting on a burner account for obvious reasons. 
company i work (software for robotics) for has hired a middle management layer of inexperienced bootcamp product grads. they all want to do things exactly as taught in class, but fail to provide any real requirements or direction. it’s all just process and product management theatre with no actual eye for solving problems. they don’t talk to users except as facilitated by ux. and somehow with all this management theatre, they only manage up/down, never cross-department (which also impacts ux’s ability to deliver important initiatives). 
our design/tech team was doing really great work before this new management layer came in. now our budgets have increased but it feels like we’re moving in quicksand and it’s not fun anymore. we’re literally blocked because product wants to build a figjam (and can’t do it themselves?). 
any tips?

what is your understanding/hierarchy of different product design titles?
if you click the link, they break down the roles and responsibilities of each title. hy of the titles. (senior, staff, director, principal, etc)
i did come across this company that has a breakdown of the roles and responsibilities. in your experience, is this accurate? 
if you click the link, they breakdown the roles and responsibilities of each title. 
* **role 1: product design internship**
* **role 2: junior product designer**
* **role 3: product designer**
* **role 4: senior product designer**
* **role 5: staff product designer**
* **role 6: sr. staff product designer**
* **role 7: principal product designer**
* **role 8: sr. principal product designer**
[https://remotecom.notion.site/remote-product-design-career-framework-37921cd4103c4e2aa26ff876b599e039](https://remotecom.notion.site/remote-product-design-career-framework-37921cd4103c4e2aa26ff876b599e039)

for folks who have been in this field for more than 10 years - how do you keep the motivation going?
started ux in 2014 and the burnout has kicked in. i see a lot of doom and gloom here, wondering if there are senior folks who can shine a light on this.

future of specialized roles within ux
hey guys,
i wanted to get your opinon on what you think about the future of specialized roles within ux. with silicon valley emphasizing more lean orgs, my assumption is some roles like research or design ops will eventually become more rare. i.e: product orgs will just ask designers and pms to do their own research, design managers to work together for design ops etc.
my company does have a few specialized roles but i always feel like we struggle to find enough work for them to do.
i personally do think these niche roles can be helpful, but only really make sense in really large orgs. i wanted to see what you guys are seeing in your orgs? do you guys feel like these specialized roles are worth the investment, is there a future in moving into specialized roles?

as a design manager - what advice would you give to junior and mid designers


struggling with design cadence at a 'perpetual startup' – any advice?
hey folks, i'm in a bit of a bind here and could really use some insight from fellow product designers. so, my company has been in 'startup mode' for over a decade now (yeah, i know how it sounds). the pace is insane, and i'm constantly getting flak for not churning out designs fast enough – they call it 'design cadence.'
here's the deal: my team expects me to pump out 1/2 designs a week, complete with research. but with 2-4 hours of calls daily, it's physically impossible to squeeze it all in. i've tried focusing on ui only, but then i'm told there's not enough research, and the designs don't match what's already in production.
i was hired for my ux skills...
update:
they laid me off and cut my access within the hour which gave me no time to save my personal documents such as payslips etc..

get alignment and consistency across 6 products and teams
how are people dealing with inconsistency between teams in orgs that don’t have someone owning an ecosystem and driving decision making. 
yes, development and management is owned, but the smaller decisions are adding up to larger impact issues. 
i’m not talking design system here - well, kind of, sometimes…. i mean governance of decisions that are made between teams where one says ‘we can’t fit that feature or pattern in’ or we can’t do it and another team says ‘sure, we can do that.  
a good example is how each team approaches search in their systems. it’s all over the place.  one does one thing, the other does another and then throw in native devices and it’s a mess. 
how should i approach - getting this noticed
? 
nobody wants extra backlog work. nobody wants extra duties to govern these issues.
i feel like we have many inconsistencies appearing and i’m drowning in details trying my best to push back so we can get aligned but it’s simply not on higher ups radar.

dealing with a bad agency
hi all,
seeking some advice here.
i'm a new ux designer within my company, specifically on the e-commerce team, and i find myself in a bit of a bind. i'm the sole ux designer, and i'm tasked with collaborating with an agency that, frankly, doesn't quite meet our expectations.
it's frustrating to navigate through their less-than-ideal approach, often riddled with excuses or unconventional ux suggestions. take, for instance, our recent project on redesigning the desktop navigation. they proposed relocating the account and cart icons from the header to the sovraheader due to menu overcrowding, which just didn't align with ux best practices.
have you faced similar challenges with agencies in your ux work?
i'd love to hear your experiences and any tips you might have for dealing with difficult partnerships.

seeking advice on implementing responsive design in ux team
i'm part of a ux team and we're gearing up to implement responsive design into our projects. however, i'm a bit unsure about the collaboration between ux design and development.
what kind of contributions should the development team make in terms of responsive design? and from the ux design perspective, what are the key things we need to know before designing for different breakpoint ranges?
so far we’ve been designing on 1440px screens and when things stretch or shrink they get ugly. so, i designed a grid library with various breakpoint ranges… but am stuck now because i’m not sure what needs to happen next. i know our dev team implements in both rem and px, it’s not consistent. i think that’s a problem. 
my elementary understanding is that if we do rem, a ratio would be applied to everything. 
if we did px, ux would have to establish what size every component is and what typography should do at each breakpoint. 
any advice or insights would be greatly appreciated! thanks in advance.

getting to "good enough" non-destructively
hello, i have been working at an ai ethics and compliance startup and have begun to take on the ethos of many of our team members here. this being the sentiment that we prioritize "good enough", and worry about "perfect" later. the issue i am facing stems from this team culture where "good enough" is often destructive or detrimental to design scoping and handoff.
sometimes, the "good enough" scoping done by the pm misses many facilitating interactions or new architectures required to support the requirements. to combat poor scoping, we have begun doing problem discovery sessions to ensure we clearly understand the problem space and what "good enough" is.
other times, the shortened timeline caused by the "good enough" scoping leads to sub-par handoffs to engineering where only the happy workflow paths are provided, and we are missing many clumsy paths. we are still working on resolving these occurrences.
my question for the experienced designers on this forum is: have you had to adjust your workflow or methods to accommodate for faster or slower product pace or culture? if so, how have you done so without impacting the quality of your own work?
apologies if this was phrased poorly.

mobile development question
looking for advice for designers on mobile app teams!
i design for a mobile application with two separate apps and development flows for ios and android. my team has 4 developers for each platform. 
since i've joined, i've noticed android development is lagging behind ios a lot, like 4 or 5 weeks behind. i'm wondering, is this normal (or acceptable)? 
it's not my responsibility to push the team, but i'm growing concerned about delivering key features for the business this year. 
thanks in advance, and sorry if this isn't the best place to ask.

ux meetings/operations
hi all, i’m trying to assess how other ux teams organize internal collaboration meetings, independent of your day to day scrum meetings. my organization has ~15 uxers and currently we have a weekly team sync to discuss ux topics and host external speakers. we have a weekly feedback hour for anyone to share their design work. we have a few other consistent activities as well. 
what else is your team doing today?

is my manager so clueless?
hey guys!
so i am asking in a serious note. 6 months ago i started as a ux ui designer in a small company with only one designer. they became my direct manager.
in the beginning i thought that it was just in some projects that were older but seriously after 6 months, i have seen that even in new projects they do the same. let me explain.
first of all they don't use a design system.they basically call something a design system which is basically a page full of components very badly made.  all the elements are placed randomly. they never use autolayout or any other properties. when i try to take an element they have created it is always ungrouped and placed just like individual elements in the screen. it has driven me mad! i always try to have my ui screens super clean and every element to be adaptable and be reused in smaller scales etc. they do not understand why i create auto layouts etc to create more complictaed elements.
on top of that, they ruin my screens. i try to do very clean screens and then they don't even copy them. because they do not understand how the layout work, they simply delete the layouts and all adjustable settings and fuck up the screen completely!
they think that they are top notch designer! i kid you not!  like they say my designs are close to perfect! for my work they always will find comments that make no sense and it is clear that they just need to say something.  
like seriously it is like having a child drawing on paint with them.... i will give you a very simple example. (btw we use figma). to create a button they don't do it with auto layout and margins etc. they use a rectangle and then they put a text into it. if they want to add an outline to a list for example, guess what... they add lines between and in the sides of the rectangle...!!
edit: besides no figma knowledge there are several other issues. we never do testing, research or problem solving. when i ask how we know that an x option is better or easier for user than y, they just simply say that because they know what users like, they will like it. so basically they call ux what they like. if i dare to question anything, i'll receive a rolled up eye. in addition, when it comes to management they sabotage my work, they never listen to what i say, they roll their eyes when i ask something or try to do like a research, they present my work as their own and emotionally harass me occasionally.
is this normal? i am not a very experienced designer myself. i have like a 2.5 to 3  years experience so i just need to know from your experiences. have you seen something like that?

how many meetings do you have daily?
curious to hear how many meetings you all have on average per day and how you manage your workflows. 
for context, i'm a mid-level designer at a mid-size startup across 2 teams and on average have  \~4 hours of meetings per day. it's extremely taxing to have to sit on zoom for this long, especially when i only have 30 min in between these meetings to do work. i usually have 1 day a week where i can actually sit and focus uninterrupted (achieving this by blocking off my calendar and rejecting any invites that day) but i'm falling behind as my to-do list grows with each meeting with little time to actually follow my process and execute. 
i've raised this with our principal designer and vp of product and they essentially agree it's a problem but have made zero effort to minimize the heavy meeting culture here. similar to other startups, there are big underlying design problems that need deep work to solve but i always feel restricted to band-aid fixes and crappy mvp add-on features due to the rushed deadlines and lack of time. 
is this expected? previously, i was at a pre-seed startup where i would have at least a couple days to get into the flow, but i have not had a single week like this in the past year i've worked at the current gig.