ceo @ startup is a unprofessional bully. is this normal startup behavior?
it’s been a few months since i left this startup. but wow the way that the ceo treated me day one is still mind boggling. i was one of the two ux designers. my first day, i messed up/didn’t understand instructions (i was intimidated to ask them for help because of their judgmental vibes). she also didn’t check up on me during the week to see if i was doing things right since i’m new to the startup. she blew up on me. cursed & mocked me. deleted my work. other mean comments that i am afraid to share.
i’m still having some trauma from that person (i’m in therapy and still recovering from the trauma). i should’ve known what i got into because i saw some mean comments on the figma file that they left for the other ux designer.
how common is this because i don’t see myself working for another startup that doesn’t value ux design and designers .

do you call yourself a ux designer or product designer?
i have worked as both a product designer and ux designer. they are essentially the same thing. what do you call your self? and is there a name that has been more successful for you when applying to jobs?

so like this just gets wilder
cannot believe the doubling down from the uxpa international leadership. i thought this was supposed to be an empathetic community? especially the guy who was like "you and i need to talk, missy." gross. not renewing my membership.

is it tough getting engineers to see our vision?
have you ever struggled to communicate your design needs to the tech team? 
like, we know what we want our products to look and feel like, how can we translate that to them? would it be better if they learnt a little about design?

ai: are your customers facing new challenges or opportunities?
how is ai reshaping the industries of your customers? have you spotted any major changes in their operations or new challenges due to ai? for instance, are you seeing ai create new roles or lead to layoffs within your users' companies?
also, how is your strategy for product development and service updates evolving to meet these shifts? i'm curious about the broader impact of ai across various sectors and hearing insights from other designers. what have you observed?

does anyone know how to create persona ?
i have been working for 2yrs and studied design but haven't understood how to create personas. lot of them who i thought were experts just gives away names of the book and maybe defines 'persona'. why? how -most importantly? no one answers. once i get research done and with theinsights i get, do i model a person based on the his motivation, behaviour & needs? if thats the case why dont i just list them and design for those factors, than to burn my energy in writing a persona?

things should never pop up. ever.
“need some help?”
no
“check out what’s new!”
no
*click and drag something, stuff bounces around out of order*
no
“chat with a representative now!”
no
ui should be something that the user learns to wield, it is the interface between user and tool.
why has it become so popular, prompts and elements popping up in the user’s face to drive engagement? everyone clicks away. will we ever escape from this trend?
edit: meant to say ui, not ux

was reached out to by two different recruiting agencies for the same job…
is this a scam? it’s for a well-known family of cpg brands. i haven’t worked with a recruiter before. is it normal that a company would work with multiple agencies for one position?

table filter button position
hey everyone, curious your thoughts on the filter button positioning in these two table examples with tabs. does the first option not make sense if the filter button is technically outside of the context of the table, or do you think users wouldn't be confused as it would just filter whatever is current displayed on screen? personally don't like creating an entire new row for the filter button to be underneath the table tabs (second option). thoughts? tia!
https://preview.redd.it/w5safdqvs0zc1.png?width=1296&format=png&auto=webp&s=5c2833067c47319aa38efc65727f3bbfcc4df351

is development/ engineering less psychologically torturing job than ux?
especially regarding the interpersonal relationships. 
does anyone here have a first-hand experience about this?

stakeholders don’t like homepage design - what now?
recently at work the marketing manager and e-commerce manager both quit. i was hired to do ux and web design but have taken on quite a number of their roles since i am now the only person in the marketing department.
i came up with a plan for how we should redesign the homepage as a marketing message but the stakeholder didn’t like it. the vp told me stakeholder/ceo is the marketing manager but my issue is there is no plan in place…
this really is out of “ux” however they consider choosing graphics for banners on the site part of it.
i feel kind of down that she didn’t like my idea very much - does anyone else feel this way with no stakeholder buy in? i’m letting it go because it wasn’t even to benefit people but just have a clear marketing plan as things are changing weekly.
i feel at this company i’m out of touch with ux and it’s frustrating. i’ve done monumental things and things on their website have caused a plus 60% conversion rate increase since i started a year ago. my issue is i don’t feel my ux skills are growing at all.

haven't seen anyone talk about playstore moving the search button, thoughts?
context for ios users it used to be at the top the same as conventional search bars in apps

"open in browser" action for file types that are unsupported by the browser
i'm wondering what is an effective way to approach setting visibility rules for "open in browser" for a file.
i'm working on a project about viewing a file on a web app. currently there are basic actions that can be done on a file such as adding to starred, download, delete, etc. one of them is "open in browser". this action is set as a default action to have for files which in the case of pdfs, works, but does not work for let's say, photoshop files. in the photoshop file case where the browser fails to open the file, the file just gets downloaded. this then results in having two (download and open in browser) actions that do the same thing: download. we feel like this is repetitive, the "open in browser" action feels misplaced and gives users an expectation  that something will open in the browser. 
however, what i'm concerned about is defining the rules (for devs) for when "open in browser" should be an available action. there's a ton of file types out there that users can upload onto the web app that i don't know if the browser can handle opening. i also don't know if the type of browser used affects if a file can be opened by it. 
or maybe this is a non issue and it actually is better for users to leave "open in browser" as an option?

new instagram carousel (no carousel indicators)
i checked to see if anyone posted about this n they didn’t so what are your thoughts? no more carousel indicator dots, now it teases the next image. 
me personally, i’d always scroll through the dots to feel satisfied i saw all the pictures in the carousel. also that person who shows the different planets spinning can’t do the cool effect anymore (dragging finger across the pagination dots to sweep across images would make the planet turn). also i feel like it interferes with how the image looks. does it also change the size of the image for people who want to make a continuous carousel post?

question: do designers use a fake email when conducting competitive analysis for multiple projects ?? or do we use a personal email.
asking as a ux design student, i was wondering how do designers avoid signing up for apps to test out the apps while also protecting their personal information.. or is that not a concern??  
update: 
thank you all for responding. yes i’m just curious because i have an assignment where i need to do a competitive analysis for few apps and i downloaded the apps, then i’d open each and saw i need to create accounts to use the apps so that’s what brought my concern. like do all designers use their own info, try these apps out then delete the accounts after or is the best practice is to use a fake email. i now see it kind of depends on what kind of situation you’re in. for this specific situation it’s not a big deal, but thank you all for letting me know for future reference ♥️

great, accessible, dark mode web applications
hi folks
i'm looking for examples of web applications (not simple websites) that:
* have an extensive visual/ui design (a bit hard to describe but might have e.g. illustrations, iconography, backgrounds, gradients, accents - not just a basic palette and simple design)
* a dark mode that doesn't lose any of the ui elements
* light mode and dark mode are accessible in terms of colour contrast (aa)
thanks in advance!
(yes, this probably better belongs on a ui subreddit, but i'm on ux and research and don't really want another)

medical / data entry ux for large complex forms
i see all of the "modern form ux best practices'' which points to things like single-column forms being much easier to digest, or using step forms. the issue i run into is that users in medical or data entry fields are so used to paper forms that they end up not liking these types of forms. now, i'm not a ux expert at my core (i specialize more in backend development), but i am being tasked with helping a team come up with a form ux that is easy to read and consume large amounts of data. they do not like having different show / edit pages (so they are essentially all edit pages). any tips or examples of ways you all have tackled similar situations would be greatly appreciated. thanks all!

what's the consensus on "accessibility modes" on websites?
i wanted to see what the general feeling regarding those accessibility buttons and settings on websites is in this community? for example, i saw a website today where the standard black text/white background contrast was aa-compliant, however they had a setting option for "low vision" that allows the user to select "high contrast". this setting changes the background to black and the text to yellow...? i thought that was strange, but maybe i'm just not familiar with what's out there.
in my work so far i have held accessibility as a priority from the start, and having an "accessibility button" seems like an afterthought, and suggests that people with different needs are the "other", but maybe i'm being too harsh?
looking forward to hearing everyone's thoughts :)
eta: these are the accessibility settings available on that particular website:
https://preview.redd.it/cpujouta6uyc1.png?width=2242&format=png&auto=webp&s=dcbeda7afe6124eaf3b822dd9298d48c65ca2bc3

ui spacing system needs help
where can i find a good resource for spacing correctly on mobile and web, like a set of rules to follow. i always feel like things are either too far apart or not in view , it’s so frustrating.

from a design perspective, would you ever have 2 versions of a website, one for the public and one for members ?
i am struggling with a project of mine. i am using a membership plugin which severely restricts our ability to use caching. the best option, i believe, will be to duplicate the sites, with one being on a subdomain and only for members to register or sign in. ? what do you think ? in addition would you clone the site or would you change the one that has the membership site a little bit and make it different than the original ? i do on plan on having the same menu options, except membersd will have more areas under the menu option. thanks

opinion on color scheme?
heyy guys i need some help with the color scheme... which option works better and why?
(these are 2 screens from a retail inventory management app)
your help would be much appreciated : )
https://preview.redd.it/ssmijhnknmyc1.png?width=784&format=png&auto=webp&s=c69052298f00464475f667145f1585c10683d5e2
https://preview.redd.it/tppsacnknmyc1.png?width=756&format=png&auto=webp&s=033f33b7ed72b53675c6383e5c711f69daa6c3df

need help to design a crm
i have got a project on designing a crm and it's my first saas work. 
1. what is the process to design the product
2. who will be my users?
3. how will i bring in service design and system thinking maps? how will i be proceeding with it?
those who have worked solely on building a crm, what is your process? how did you convince your stakeholders on certain decisions? i wany some inputs.

when applying white text to a grey background, at what grey rgb value does the white start to lose legibility?
what is the inflection point at which you would turn from white to black text?
i’m thinking maybe  220,220,220 or #dcdcdc

user “delight”.
unpopular opinion ahead!
let’s talk about “user delight”. how do we measure user delight? how do we measure if slapping on an illustration, writing a quirky copy, or adding a cool fancy microinteraction actually makes users mildly happier?
i don’t know if this is because of the industries i’ve been in, but i get so frustrated when, in design crits, other designers give me feedback like “maybe you can add a bit of user delight here, slap on an animation or something” and calls it a day.
don’t get me wrong. i love pretty stuff. i love cool interactions. i too, would love to create the best “success” state with a cheerleader-like copy and illustration after a long wizard to make users feel like they’ve achieved something. i’d love to spend 3 hours doing up a cool button animation. but here’s the thing. nobody outside of design is convinced that these small “user delights” are actually making people’s days better. we terrible at measuring this kind of stuff. even when i do user research, users are happy when we make processes as simple as possible so they can go spend time with their families, not when they see a quirky illustration that resembles them. product people see these points of delights, but users - people that have a life outside of product - don’t seem to.
so when as designers we fixate on things like user delight, i feel like we’re driving ourselves to be seen as less seriously. how do you prove user delight? just like how good type hierarchy improves readability - a tried and tested theory that actually benefits people - is there research i can use to rationalise my time spent on adding “delight”?

what do you think of meta's new chatbot?
seems like facebook is going all in with a new «ai» feature that generate search ideas, and open a conversation box when what you are looking for is not found on the platform - powered by llama 3.
very subjectively, this feels like a weak attempt at riding the chatgpt buzz. maybe it's innovative. i don't know.
thoughts?

ux future forecasting.... what are the next design disciplines, after ux?
**lets be future-focused / speculative for this thread.**  i know ux is *not* going away-- but i want to know what we can skill ourselves up towards, that would be in right general direction.  
1. what are potential new design fields, arenas, disciplines or subdomains that ux designers could step into?  
2. what are tangentially related fields that a senior ux designer (with many years of experience could step towards)?  
two years ago i was thinking that ai ux design would emerge as a field but it really hasnt yet as a discipline, role or field.  i was looking at all these "ux of ai" classes but they seem really lacking at this point.

share your top design influencers and resources!
i wasn’t sure if influencers was the right word but these people have helped me learn a lot this year! 
i’m excited to find more awesome resources, please share in the comments!
abraham john: 
https://www.linkedin.com/in/abrahamjohn90?utm_source=share&utm_campaign=share_via&utm_content=profile&utm_medium=ios_app
debbie levitt:
https://medium.com/@deltacxdebbie
robert floyd: 
https://youtube.com/@rbrtflyd?si=neueq1yiiazr8_mx
dan mall:
https://danmall.com/free-resources/

pricing strategy for redesign
hey, so i've received a client who needs a redesign for his e-commerce platform focusing on ux design and information architecture.
i'm a designer who has front-end and data skills who has 2 years of experience as a ux designer. 
there are 25 pages in total (including privacy policies, faqs, 404). im charging $18 bucks for regular pages (like privacy, faqs, about), $20 for research and $25 for impact pages (home, product lists, cart).
this is totalling upto $6000. this is only for figma design. not development. i'm unsure if this is rightly priced. however, i'm confident my resulting work would be of good quality, well-researched and effective.
i will take any help or guidance this community can offer. thanks in advance!

why we talk about *the state of design*
we often see posts or articles on \*the state of design\* by individuals or agencies, particularly towards the end of calendar year. their goal might be to build conversations to find convergence (or even divergence) in how experts and the industry see the state of design, or to find directions, or to share their own opinion and experiences about the state of design.
i wonder what do we do with the takeaways from such posts. we already tonnes of information and learnings from the real world examples and case studies, conference talks, and so much wisdom on social media and anywhere on the internet—do we need more directions? is it not about applying those learnings and gains first into our real world? 
and if the goal of such state of design posts is to learn how to apply, then it is not about the state of design—it is more about the state of teams design, the working principles and frameworks, the how and why of people working in design, and not the design itself.
design has been default. we had design engineers designing our cars one hundred years ago. we always had textile designers, and cutlery designers for more than one hundred years.
&gt;**if i cannot increase the volume of my device while i am in an online call, this is first a design failure and then an engineering failure.**  
**if i hurt my thumb while using a jaguar tap, it is first a design failure and then a manufacturing failure (**[**~related tweet~**](https://x.com/vingar/status/1584401694732955648?ref=designcriticalthinking.com)**).**  
**when you talk about the modern cities and** [**~the streets where kids cannot play~**](https://aeon.co/essays/why-boring-streets-make-pedestrians-stressed-and-unhappy?ref=designcriticalthinking.com)**—this is not only an administration failure or policy failure—this is a design failure.**
for a minute, just observe the device and the app that you are using to read this article now. have we not laughed at these browsers for shattering our confidence? 
**the talks on design maturity, design roi, design systems, design operations, design leadership—these serve merely as a salad on the table**. the main course is lost somewhere in figma, overhyped stakeholders, discovery synthesis that is shelved now, and in the underrated and dusted micro-systems that rarely get a chance to see the design light in real sense. *and this salad shows in our digestion system*—*we consume what we cultivate*.
as long as there is a struggle of versus—production vs maintenance, or profits vs people, or sales vs systems, our [**investments in innovation**](https://aeon.co/essays/innovation-is-overvalued-maintenance-often-matters-more?ref=designcriticalthinking.com) will continue to be part of the misplaced hype.
design has been the default. it will be. we just need to design with common sense. 
*we do not need to talk about the state of design.*

how do ui / ux interviews look like?
i work for a **very small web** development agency and they are planning to hire their first ui ux designer.
i am curious what is the usual flow from start to end?
reviewing case studies, whiteboard exercise? (from what i grasped watching videos on youtube)
any tips or previous experience would be su

what actually is modern ux design?
i am new to the sub and looked at the booklist and there's so many books on design principles, lean design, and designing for usability. why 50 of these books? because the list i was looking at shows the books in chronological order. which is neat, but what early books are important and which ones now are important? wheres the standardization? shouldn't there be a giant section regarding ux software engineering? outside of phd level study in hci what is there to explore in the world of modern ux design for someone who already has a design degree

figma color variables design system question
hi all! its my first time creating a design system and i wanted to ask for advice.
basically we are now using new variables feature and i am now creating tokens. i have stumbled upon a thought on how to use colors that have opacity in them. mainly because i am not sure how devs use it.
i created a main brand color, let's call it "green 600" and for some surface background designers used opacity of 10%. the color doesnt match brand colors in primitives if i just use a copy color tool of this surface that lays on top of our main background color. 
so my question is do i just create a primitive with opacity and use it for surface token then write to devs in design system card that this color uses opacity, or do i copy it and create a solid color primitive? what is a correct way?

best folio presentation deck you have seen? what made it so good?
been looking around for how people present their work and found some great ones but interested to see more perspectives and hopefully some sources.

can you help me understand how to go about creating user journeys and what to do with them?
i recently joined a b2b startup as a solo ux designer. this is my second ux job. in the previous role, i was working with a couple of other designers and we had a pm. we didn't have personas, user journeys and things of that sort. i would work with the pm to identify the problem and then we would explore solutions to that problem and take things from there.   
in my new role, i am the only designer and there are no pms!!
our ceo has asked me to come up with personas and user journeys. and i have no idea where to being and i am panicking.
- should i start interviewing customers to identify personas and then put those together to create user journeys?
- should i create separate journeys for each persona and highlight the overlaps or one giant one and highlight the differences?  
- are there specific questions that i should ask to help me create a useful one?  
- do i capture things and touch-points that are happening outside of our product?  
- what are some good user journey examples that i can use as a reference point?
any help would be greatly appreciated.

using tooltips on disabled surfaces, what is the convention? we're designing a saas product (web on) where we want to show tooltips on a disabled buttons or surfaces, to explain why is this thing disabled. but ideally disabled button means its not interactable then ... (more info in the description)
does it make sense to have tooltips on a disabled buttons and surfaces. we also have some places like certain items in a dropdown menu is disabled and we want to show why those options are disabled.  
we have seen in lot of good products like github and gmail they use tooltips on disabled buttons, but we are conflicted by this thought that disabled button means that its cannot be interacted with, so how does it work?  
what are your thoughts about this, how do we tackle this problem? also its not a form, sometimes the reason why something is disabled can be on some other page.  
how do we design this? if we were to user test this, how do we specifically test this disabled button, its a huge saas product & testing just this disabled button in moderated or unmoderated testing is bit weird and me and my team are unable to figure out how to go about it.
https://preview.redd.it/fxoriqc0j0yc1.png?width=804&format=png&auto=webp&s=49ff81a9997d2cf58dc0d8406a26fa79dcbcf33b

figma question
hello, i was working on a design file in figma and my wireframes disappeared. i can still see the frames are present under layers, i just cannot view the actual frames. does anyone know what might have caused this? thank you.

designing for interfaces with high information density
hi folks! curious on any books or media to consume to learn about best practices on designing interfaces with high information density. especially when your users are handling very sensitive objectives (legal, corporate finances, patient data, etc).
did a quick cursory glance on google and came across articles that didn’t impress me very much (a lot of before-and-afters where the after is actually less readable, just more stylized or comparing dribbble art to actual interfaces people use).
what spurred this question: 
- there’s been some discussion at work around whether it’s warranted for certain experiences to be very text-heavy, or if there are ways to convey the same level of information without users having to read paragraphs
thanks!

designers at microsoft
i’m looking for insight from designers who work at or have interviewed with microsoft. anyone have thoughts about it?

the most creative website 2024
i would like you to share with me which website you consider the most revolutionary in terms of user experience this year, 2024, or even 2023 works for me. lately, i feel that the sites i see are all the same, with hardly any differences beyond a few aesthetic details. has anything surprised you from this perspective recently?

can you help me best describe this design failure?
this is an example, so i’m not looking to describe this exact scenario, but this as a concept. 
- it says “open in safari” but chrome is your default so it opens in chrome. it could say “open in default browser” or “open in chrome” but it doesn’t. 
- if you were just shooting the breeze about ux principles, you’d say this shows a lack of what? the developer failed to do what? when this type of thing is happening where it’s not broken, the user will probably be get there and adjust to it easily, but it’s just not quite accurate. in somewhat academic terms how do you describe this type of mistake as a concept?

how does knowing another language / learning a new language make you a better designer?
what the title says.

why are bachelor's degrees in computer science and psychology often recommended for ux?
i often hear that a degree computer science, psychology is seen as a good foundation for getting into ux (the top two recommended in this [article](https://www.coursera.org/articles/what-degree-do-i-need-to-become-a-ux-designer)), but as someone who has studied both in an undergraduate capacity, i don’t really agree. many cs programs aren’t even adequate for developer roles, much less for design. sure, i guess being able to communicate effectively with the dev team is nice, but getting a degree for that purpose alone is a bit of an overkill. as for psychology, i can see the case for experience in setting up studies and synthesizing data for user research, but not much beyond that, and there’s still a huge gap in skills separating a psych grad from even a junior ux role.
unless i’m wrong in my assessment, i wish people would stop recommending that students go into debt for degrees that aren’t really going to help them with the career they’re envisioning for themselves, especially with many schools now offering more ux-centric programs and including ux in their existing design programs, and not to mention all the bootcamp grads filling up the junior application queues.

need certification recommendations
title says it all. my job is requiring that we all get a new certifications each year and i’m not really sure what to do. it was easy for the developers i work with to find their thing, but i’m not really sure what i should be tying to get certified in.

why are login forms in mac apps so bad?
when downloading apps for the mac (from the net), you usually have to log in. most modern software open the browser again to log in, but some offer log in screens in app, very often with limited feedback, so no input feedback or low visual feedback.
both of those options are not ideal. anyone know why this can‘t be solved differently? is this a technical barrier?

quite a bit of online drama over the new garmin connect app redesign. any thoughts from this community about it?
garmin just released a new redesign of their connect app and the response from the community has been incredibly negative. after being in beta for awhile, they are getting slammed on every social media platform.
if you don't use garmin or want to understand better what the uproar is about, [this video](https://youtu.be/hj6uf0ep3x4?si=onntzg5tivuwjii7) goes over the differences between the two designs. i'm curious what other ux professionals think about this new design and get your thoughts on it.

best way to send designs to pm and dev
hi, everyone!
i'm trying to figure out the best way to send my designs to pm and dev. 
one of my coworkers creates a giant frame and puts all of the designs into that frame, noting the related requirements for each screen. then they send a prototype link to the giant frame. i've done this twice, but it's messy when you have multiple different flows. i usually separate each flow into its own row and create a giant frame around each row, but it's difficult to navigate that.
what do you do to send designs to your pms and devs?
thank you!

wanting to become a ux designer.
i want to learn ux/ui design and do a career transition, but i’m always seeing negative posts here on this reddit about scarcity of opportunities, weak income, and super competitive market. thoughts?

how to make the jump from mid level to senior?
hey all,
i'm currently a mid-level product designer and looking for advice on how to make the jump to senior. i have 3 years experience but also 3 years experience working as an industrial designer which im looking to lean on.
what do i need to do to be considered for senior positions? also any insight on how my day to day would change as a senior?

can you give me some ideas of how to have a nice timeline ?
i am very bad at design, however, i do work on websites, but mostly advanced functionality, such as sites where you can do e-commerce or membership sites or bookings.
however, i need to come up with a timeline, is there somewhere i can go and look at timelines that look nice so i can leverage how they did it ?
better yet, if there are any solid timeline plugins in wordpress. 
much appreciated.

the type of ux designer that needs to fear the state of the market is the designer who spends the majority of their time on figma
i've seen a lot of negativity and uncertainty about the field of ux lately, which is not surprising given the constant news about mass layoffs in tech. however, i sincerely feel like a lot of the people that are in a bad situation at the moment are "fear mongering" to the masses in hopes that they join their sorrow. this is just wrong.
i believe that people who spent the majority of their working time designing on figma files are truly the only ones who need to worry about getting laid off, or not finding a job in this market. you invested a disproportionate amount of time learning a tool that represents maybe 20% tops of the work that is truly needed for any design work that matters at an organization that is worth their salt. this might sound harsh, but i would like to hear how it is not correct.
if you are a ux designer who spent the majority of their working time dealing with difficult clients, collaborated in cross-disciplinary teams, had a strong voice in every discussion, can go toe to toe with a ux architect, can support your developers at every stage of implementation, etc. you should have nothing to fear. you are incredibly hard to replace and you are in demand.
now once again, if all you did was spent your time behind figma, working on things that barely have an impact on the overall bottom line, well....

journey mapping. kinda need help.
hi folks. 
i’m trying to journey map the top of funnel experience of the product i work on and it’s a bit of a tricky one. 
previously i’ve done larger journey maps across near whole ecomm experiences which is actually kinda easier, but when faced with a simple 4 page journey i’m a bit stumped. 
any tips, hints or suggestions greatly appreciated. 
why am i doing this? i guess to uncover opportunities and look at the whole (if short) journey more holistically, rather than focus on step level minor iterations.

reddit ux on android need rework
when the user enter the detail page of each post on android, they have to press back to go to main page to see other post. the lack of hand gesture make the ux feel off. if you swipe left you can go to the next post, this is a good design however there is a limit on the amount you can scroll. why??

need advice: handling red flags and collaboration issues in a new product design role
i just started a new product design gig at a media company three months ago so i am pretty fresh to this team and still learning their processes. i love the job so far and find it so fun, but three months in i’m starting to see some red flags. some context — this is an internal tool platform team which comes with its own cultural and organizational issues which might be compounding what i’m seeing. i’ve worked on these types of teams/products in the past and have seen similar issues and they wore me down in a way i want to avoid this time around. 
this last week i was assigned an urgent ticket for a feature on a project that i haven’t been ramped on to yet. this project was in flight and close-to-done when i joined and the team seemed to make the assessment that design help wasn’t needed. well now i’m getting tickets assigned to me as they finish implementation. this particular ticket is one dealing with a multi-player problem. users can collaborate kind of like a google doc where they see each others changes reflected on the screen, though if they open a new tab of the same document, they need to close or refresh the old one to not be out of sync. the ticket is for a modal that displays to the user that they need to do this refresh. the ticket was assigned to me by eng originally without a due-date and with no other context (screenshots, recordings, etc) but a written explanation that i didn’t quite understand. 
i don’t have much context on this project but this ticket at first glance seemed like a request for a new flow or something warning experience. i asked for more context to be added to the ticket and the engineer added a screenshot of another modal that exists in the app and said that we are just reusing this modal and that we just need copy to put into it. this was where i started to get a bit irritated. i don’t like to be told what design i should be making without giving something a fair assessment, and upon first glance this seemed like a lot bigger of a ticket than a simple copy change. a similar thing happened a few weeks ago and i acquiesced to that change since it was described to me that it was a low-stakes edge-case. i delivered copy changes but in this case eng requested for the copy changes to be displayed in the context of the ui. another irritating request since we don’t have any kind of design system or component library that’s easily usable. the last time i swallowed this work, built the components from some old files and delivered the changes and they were accepted. 
i had a similar issue with this modal in that i did not have any assets in figma to just reuse to build the design. i’m in the midst of leading our design systems project and thought this would be a perfect opportunity to let the team feel a bit of the pain of not having one by blocking this ticket and listing it as dependent on me building the component in figma. i checked with my manager before doing this and she was on board and loved the idea. the figma work would only take me an hour at most but i didn’t want this work to be invisible anymore. as you might already be able to deduce, labeling this ticket as blocked escalated the tension around it which led to a long back-and-forth slack exchange where one of the engineers firmly let me know that all they needed was a copy change and i didn’t need to deliver any ui. then product came in to say that the due date is urgent and in a few days. 
i’ve been around long enough to know that this situation signals a problem. i’m also having some worries dealing with it this time around after having some on-the-job confidence issues following a layoff last year. part of me wants to just put my head down and do the ticket and just say yes, but i also know my portfolio has suffered immensely from being on teams like this in the past. i also think leading culture-change on this team could be a good case-study in itself, and however painful, i think learning the skills to negotiate change in a positive way would be so valuable to learn. maybe this is also me coping with the fact that i said no to an interview with a very cool company last week in order to put firmer roots down on this one before considering a job change because of culture-issues that i perceive as fixable. the product i build is in a dismal state, as are most internal platforms, and i have lots of data and evidence that usability is leading to efficiency issues that are impacting the business — so i do feel the team should care more about the user’s experience in this case.
what would y’all do in this situation? i have already elevated the issue to my manager, and have a meeting with the pm later to discuss process improvements. i also plan to start having more 1:1’s with the engineers to better build rapport beyond everyday stand ups. i’ve avoided this in the past by meeting with them on a project-basis because i know engineers hate having lots of meetings on their calendars, but it seems like i should have those 1:1’s explicitly. what can i do here to better build trust with the team and build a good culture of collaboration? i’m embarrassed to say that i’ve started reading “how to gain friends and influence people” to upskill my communication skills. are there any good books i could listen to to get a better grasp on this critical skill?

show a list of products
hi, i am creating a dashboard in shopify using polaris and i have a problem with showing a list of items. right now, "select products" button opens a modal with option to choose from and then those products are being shown in a list under "select products". the problem is when we add products, the list under "select products" gets too long and it would take a lot of space, is there any way to display with function differently?
https://preview.redd.it/vvocbad15exc1.png?width=1058&format=png&auto=webp&s=0a031e078b7ce56649656fc9f7407a957a8e3271
https://preview.redd.it/a7ztgym15exc1.png?width=1312&format=png&auto=webp&s=ee907a05c4e22ed94961aeec59ec4863537a12a1

do you have to be immersed in digital products to be a good ux/ui designer?
digital product focused ux'ers -- if you could choose one, what method do you prefer? feel free to discuss in comments
[view poll](https://www.reddit.com/poll/1cfql4s)

anyone in this sub attending the uxdx conference in nyc 5/15-5/17?
i'll be at the conference in person, wondering if anyone else on here is attending.

should a ux designer be familiar with faang apps?
how important is it that we stay up to date with the latest and “greatest” apps?
i find a lot of scrutinizing and other non-useful comments made about these companies and their designs, but i also have to ask myself: am i just picking and choosing designs and heuristics randomly out of a hat?
when do heuristics change? is nielsen norman the gold standard we will always reference? is it unnecessary for us as designers to “try out” new apps every now and then?
i’ve worked with managers, peers and coworkers that can’t even run miro or teams, and haven’t installed an app on their phone in 10 years. and these are the people designing the next $1 million idea..

best practices for color contrast in app design for text field containers
hi everyone!
i’m part of a team developing an app, and we’ve encountered a debate concerning the color contrast for our text field containers. our goal is to ensure that our app is accessible, but we’re not sure about the level of contrast required for different elements.
half of our team believes that the borders of input fields are considered graphics, meaning they should meet the aa accessibility standard for color contrast. the other half argues that only the content inside the fields (i.e., the text) needs to adhere to the aa standard, and the borders can be less stringent.
we want to make an informed decision that aligns with best practices in accessibility. could anyone share insights or resources on how to handle color contrast for both the text and the borders of text field containers in app design? how critical is it to maintain aa contrast standards for input field borders?
thank you in advance for your help!

alternatives to infinite scroll
the well-known video from the nielsen norman group (https://www.nngroup.com/videos/alternatives-to-infinite-scrolling/),  discussing alternatives to infinite scrolling, highlights three potential solutions for this functionality. 
firstly, it mentions a button to view more content. secondly, it discusses incorporating pagination within an extensive document, and finally, it touches on traditional pagination. 
european union legislation is already targeting the infinite scroll design pattern due to its proven harmful effects. this appears to be a clear trend. 
i wonder who will devise a new design pattern that, with high adoption rates, can replace the way we continuously consume content.

anyone’s role here is focused more on interaction design rather than experience design?
looking to have a specific focus rather than be a generalist—right now, my ux role
is mostly pixel pushing, but i would love more intersection with used psychology/research. 
i see some interaction design positions and some service design positions on li. wondering what yall love/hate about your roles?

🧿 from layouts to user scenarios
https://www.reddit.com/gallery/1cek9sf

seeking feedback and assistance for music meta-tag importer ui project
i'm currently diving into a ui project aimed at creating a music meta-tag importer from spotify, and i'm in need of your expertise and feedback. as someone with a background in accounting, ui design isn't my forte, so any assistance or advice would be greatly appreciated.
**project overview:**  
i'm working on developing a user-friendly interface that allows users to import music meta-tags from spotify and integrate them into their music files. the goal is to streamline the process and enhance the functionality for music enthusiasts.
**what i'm looking for:**  
feedback on the ui design: since ui design isn't my area of expertise, i'd love to hear your thoughts on the design layout, colour scheme, and overall user experience. if you can create a json file with a good color scheme based on the attached ui design, it would be fantastic.
**current progress:**  
i've attached a sample ui design that i've been working on. however, i'm open to any improvements or changes suggested by the community.
**current knows issue.**
1. 1.log box colour separation break
2. 2.placeholder theme break
3. 3.typing and colour of input box break
if u can fix it, please fix and give me
and its python [customtkinter](https://github.com/tomschimansky/customtkinter) code 
[link to json ui theme](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1u19t5jnqcj0uyxcak28pj6zndulznqct/view?usp=sharing)  
[link to ui.py ](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1kppu9l0ydt6rmuzkuxw-jciz7lvl1ipi/view?usp=sharing)

what does it mean to create a responsive website?
hi, i was given a design test and was asked to create a responsive homepage. does this mean i submit 3 prototypes, for desktop, mobile and tablet, or does it mean i submit one prototype on figma and he can see the prototype being responsive with the use of constraints? thank you

how do you measure the amount of time you need for a project?
hi designers, i am gonna start my first full time job as ui/ux designer in a fintech company after 1 year of freelance web design. 
my manager said that project time is going to decided by me. i need to report accurate estimated time and stick to it. 
edit: sorry for misunderstanding, i should have gave more info. of course there is a project manager and he is going to say the final word. but they think ui/ux is the longest process and it will define the time we need for project. 
on my web design jobs i've always priced my clients by project, not hourly and i skipped some of ux process. 
is there a formula that you are using? like "1 week or 40 hours for ideation, research and data digging, 1 week for user flows and mapping..." etc. also there should be time i need to calculate for wireframes, user testing and final designs of course. 
thanks for help :)

competitive research strategies?
what are you all doing for competitive research? 
how do you leverage competitors (primary, secondary, tertiary) to inform design decisions?
very curious to hear if anyone’s using data scraping, ai sentiment analysis (reviews on app store, tech support forums), or any other useful qualitative asynchronous analytics.
tools like pendo, domo, countless others seem to offer the feature but the paywalls are outrageous. i don’t know much about data scraping but it seems to be the next level of research imo.
thanks in advance for the discussion!

any designers with data scientist background? finding a lot of opportunities in ux crossover. discussion in comments.
i’ve just started getting into scraping reviews for competitive sentiment analysis of direct, indirect (secondary, tertiary) competitors. 
the reason for doing this is to find actual user feedback on what is working and not working. 
there are several saas programs offering this for a heavy subscription price. 
is anyone successfully doing this on your own? i’m learning about beautifulsoup and some of the other famous data crawlers, but really not finding any ux designers that understand why this matters, let alone if they have the skills to do it. 
any help or discussion greatly appreciated on (marketing focused) data science in ux research.

what's your biggest challenge when proposing a design to business teams?
hey designers, is it also a challenge for you to communicate designs with people from the business side, justifying design decisions, and incorporating their feedback? is it a time consuming process to get aligned with business objectives and goals?

examples of ui that generate/update 1000s of content based on selected inputs and filters (genai preferred)
it’s hard for me to describe this because it’s going to sound like it applies to everything in general but i’ll try.
without getting into too much detail, i’m working on designing a web app that allows people to produce tons of  results of a single content type after they enter a number of parameters. the content can then be tweaked on the fly by again tweaking the parameters. nearly all the parameters are on a spectrum (e.g. high cost to low cost).
ideally am thinking about genai experiences but i’m open to non-genai examples too.
so for example, say the web app generates blueprints of houses. the architect has to enter some parameters (at least one) before anything is generated, most of which will be on a range, e.g. cost, size, number of rooms, style, etc.
the app then spits out thousands of blueprints that the user now has to sift through or they can go back and tweak some of the parameters which will regenerate the results. the idea then is that the architect can select a single blueprint and tweak that blueprint some more by further tweaking the parameters.
i’m specifically interested in seeing examples of similar parameter selection experiences, and then the experience of allowing the user to sift through their results and tweaking them by tweaking the parameters.
hope that all makes sense!

i think they completely forgot about their customers. 1/5 of the page is actually what you want to see.
https://i.redd.it/stkabnah9vwc1.jpeg

is config 2024 suitable for finding ux design/research jobs?
hi everyone! i'm a college student graduating in december 2024 with a non-design degree, but i'm interested in pursuing a career in ux design and research. do you think config 24 would be a valuable conference for networking and job search purposes in particular? are there any other major ux conferences happening in late 2024 that would be particularly valuable for job hunting? any advice or recommendations would be greatly appreciated. thanks in advance!

datagrid options menu with no options?
sorry if this is not the right place to post this question, but i am wondering if anyone has an opinion on this scenario:
i have a datagrid where each row has the option to clone or delete. however, these options are based on the user's permissions, which at times won't allow them to clone or delete any row. so, is it better to: disable each option (choice a), disable the menu button (choice b), or hide the entire column (choice c)?
[picture of choices](https://imgur.com/a/sfgcypa)

book recommendations on addicting behaviours
hey all!  
i've had a quick look through the stickie but couldn't see anything that piqued my interest.
i'm about to start a new project centred around profiles and gamification.
does anyone have any recommendations of books that focus on understanding why users keep coming back to digital products, addictive patterns and the mental models that surround this?
edit: just to be clear, i'm looking to understand both sides of this - both the psychology behind addictive patterns and how to mitigate against them to be as ethical as possible, and to create a great user experience.

does anyone know what grey hexcode and opacity is used on apple visionos windows?
i’m looking for the hexcode used on the gaussian blur windows on visionos.

comparison table with hidden prices, dumb or genius?
https://i.redd.it/qnnup3c72swc1.png

ux with ui developer (the death of ui design?)
has anyone else noticed that ux is spending more time working with ui development? 
with storybook and design systems. it would appear a ui developer is already doing the role of ui design.
ux seems to be doing the bulk of the upfront design work and logic, then handing a wireframe straight off to ui devs.
if your developers are good and you have a design system. you don’t really ever need to create the fully branded design. 
it just seems a trend in workflow i’m noticing.

on the config schedule, there's no way to see the entire event title beyond "..." without pressing "see details" to open a whole new page. i'm currently studying ux design and was wondering if there's a rationale behind this design decision? would appreciate any of your thoughts!!
https://i.redd.it/ane3se54prwc1.png

how involved are you in platform decisions?
context: designing for multiple products that are integrated
when a decision affects the design across products, how involved are you?

i love ux in general but i hate  making screens and layouts
so i’ve been in ux for over 2 years now. i got into this field because i love how ux seemed to be about psychology and research and figuring out ias and less about making “visually stunning interfaces”. but the job market has been just that for as long as i’ve been here and it seems to be on the rise. the thought of making ui breaks my mind. my brain gets blue screened when i try thinking about layouts. sometimes i think i should sit and learn ui design and then call myself “a ux designer who delivers pixel perfect products”, sometimes i think i should keep trying to stay a ux purist. i really don’t know what to do and i need help

where do you find people to review your portfolio?
i've tried adplist and out of 5 sessions, only 1 was helpful. most of the mentors either skim through my portfolio and say "yup, looks good enough. you're qualified for mid or senior roles", or start rattling off generic advice like:
* put your finished design at the top
* put results/outcomes at the top
* don't include useless personas
* show your process
...even though my portfolio (pulled up in front of them!!) does all of these already. they seem a bit taken aback that i have 4 years experience at a global company, so perhaps they usually only talk to juniors or people transitioning careers? and i know it's a free service and i should be thankful, but after repetitive reschedules and no-shows, it's a waste of time when they can't provide more than surface-level feedback.
i'm not getting responses to my applications so i know there has to be some issue with my resume/portfolio. where are mid & senior level designers finding people to review your portfolio and give quality feedback?

goldman sachs design system is now hidden/private?
random question but i have a list of 10-15 design systems i tend to check if i need inspiration or ideas or want to see general best practices. i just noticed the goldman sachs one though is just... gone? is this common? i'm new-ish to uxd and was just surprised to see it disappear and redirect to their site and saw nothing online about it. it's a bit of a bummer because their system was pretty good.

why apple’s system/website grey shades always lean slightly blue?
the black text on their website is #1d1d1f, and their main off white colour is #f5f5f7.
these differences are super subtle, so i wondered if anyone knew why they do this.

what to do? manager refuses ux
i work for a company who is rapidly growing in the defence industry. i was recruited pretty early to the company with a promise to when the time comes ill work with ux. however, there was no role when i joined the company so got a temporary role in the mean time. 
the day i started my manager got replaced with an very old school engineer who does not believe in ux and does not see the value it brings. 
after having visitors from various customers, all of them asked about ux, user research and user tests. they all also highlighted that this is what they desire and the possibility to utilise ux is what separates us from our competitors. yet my manager is absolutely spiteful towards the idea. 
i have sat down with him trying to explain the benefits, how it could improve our products and the company in general. yet he refuse to listen.
i am at a loss of what i should do, i really like the company, my colleagues and i really believe in the potential of the products we supply.. but i am stuck with assignments that dont interest me the slightest.

how do you run workshops?
any suggested readings?
how do you pull info out of people and force participation when everyone is remote?
what exercises do you do? what do you need ahead of time for the workshops? 
do you run them alone or partner with pm or po? 
i worked some before but never really ran one alone. the idea of being a one-man-band is somewhat terrifying. 
i get that identifying goals and why i brought certain people together is needed but how do you keep the convo going? how do you know when the amount of info gathered is enough and not a time waster?

my literal job is visual design & breaking down complex processes...yet i can't even communicate my job whenever my business director asks me what i do ...help 😭
ok so my boss who is a non-designer has hard time understanding what i do because shes obviously not from design background which i understands.
i do graphic , ux, ui designs with focus on aesthetics/visuals/design systems/etc. its not hard to describe the day-to-day thing. but she still asks occasionally.
how can i communicate this on a macro level for business executives to understand the value of these disciplines?
help

if you have options "zone 1 (outside)" and "zone 2", will you assume that "zone 2" is inside?
please me help with an ux discussion i had today.
let's say you want to make a reservation at a restaurant using an app, and (after selecting the day and time) when the app ask you about the table's settings, it gives you two options:
* zone 1 (outdoor)
* zone 2
the question is:
1. will you assume that "zone 2" is for tables that are indoor (while "zone 1" is for outdoor tables)?
2. or will you assume that "zone 2" is for tables that can be either indoor or outdoor?

challenges working with pms
hi designers. what are some challenges you have in your day to day work with product managers?

how would you respond to a portfolio purely made of short form videos?
random thought, serious question considering hiring managers admit to spending 5 min max on websites. like 1 minute long, walking through the process of the project and ending with the outcome. not necessarily just a bunch of interactions. something simple like explain the team/timeline/context, explain any constraints or issues that came up during the design process, and end with the outcome/impact.

position asks for salesforce design system experience, is this something legit?
came across a few job descriptions that specifically ask for salesforce lightening design system experience specifically for ux designer position (not in salesforce obviously)
i understand maybe candidates familiarity with it can be preferred, but i dont see why its required. i understand the patterns that are in lightening system, so why require the experience of using it.
i guess my question is, is there something thats unique to salesforce systems that requires this? why cant just general ux or enterprise ux be preferred?

ux all-rounders (proficient at both design and research), how do you like being at big tech?
do they make you do one or the other, or can you have input in both? are you happy at big tech? would you recommend all-rounders to work at big tech, and would you suggest specialization or to remain well-grounded? thanks :-)

what’s going on with the xr space?
i’ve been interested in this space but after browsing the job postings it seems that it’s not in demand at all. can folks within the industry provide insight?

seeking expert feedback: how to elevate conversion rates on a ride service landing page
hello all,     
this jpeg is being difficult. [https://ibb.co/gjb72bx](https://ibb.co/gjb72bx)
i'm looking for feedback that's brutally honest and creatively constructive. we're here to learn and grow. feel free to be as detailed as you like – every bit of wisdom helps.   
here are a few specific areas where i'm seeking advice:   
&#x200b;
1. **cta placement and design:** how can we make our call-to-action buttons more compelling? we liked the example [uber](https://www.uber.com/) has where on their website it is very minimalistic, we want a user to enter in their details, and on the next page, it will ask for name and phone or name and email and then give them the quote they were looking for and allow for them to checkout/execute if they want.     
2. **layout:** i know some cultures read left to right however we are targeting more na/ uk/ aus clients, do you have any tips on how we can improve the readability/ eye-tracking?  
3. **testimonials:** we want to build trust through customer reviews. any suggestions on best practices for eye tracking and presentation?     
4. **mobile responsiveness:** given the increasing traffic from mobile devices, what are the key aspects to focus on for a seamless mobile experience?     
5. **any other ui/ux enhancements:** if you spot any other opportunities for improvement, i'm all ears!     
we want to try to keep it classy like [netjets](https://www.netjets.com/en-us/) but focus on attracting all groups of clients seeing we have priced ourselves 15-20% on average more than the ride-share apps but about 30%  lower than our competitors in black car.   
thanks so much in advance for your time and help!   
p.s.: if you have seen any remarkable examples that could inspire our redesign, please share those as well.   
cheers,

question about icon positioning
i am new to ux design and i am designing an app in figma. my question is how far should a back button icon be from the edge of  a screen?  i currently have it set to 37pts from the edge.
https://preview.redd.it/ay9gwynkkgwc1.png?width=665&format=png&auto=webp&s=41bb1d98f362f6fe69d35b9a1966ee5cd9f5ddf0

am i the only one that hates all the "i redesign the instagram app in 30 minutes!" videos?
those redesigns are terrible.
these have consistently flooded my fyp on different apps, and with good reason: i watch them from beginning to end with a slight disgust face. and then the algorithm just feeds it to me, thinking that i liked it, to reap them sweet sweet engagement metrics.
holding an open discussion about what could be improved on an app you use daily, or giving feedback is totally fine.
but hearing a 20 year old undergraduate unjustifiably roast the design teams at these fortune 500 companies by pushing personal preferences and ignoring the fact these apps are complex ecosystems used by a gazillion people on 150 different countries, with 5000+ cultures and languages just baffles me. 
for instance: 
[link to video - 3:58](https://youtu.be/gtffucamm78?si=j8n27efmujrc2-_g&t=238)  
&gt;\&gt; "hurr durr, why would you use a 🔍 icon instead of 🧭 if the tab is actually for exploring stuff???"   
\&gt; moves the search interaction outside of finger reach, creates major layout shift for a critical feature, and changes the icon of the tab, ignoring the thousands of user testing rounds this feature has gone through. 
i'm not genuinely upset, this is the internet and i haven't lost my marbles (*yet*), but i wanted to share this with you all lol

ux patterns for asking users to complete an action outside of the platform?
i'm working on a feature that requires users to place a file in a folder outside of the platform before they can complete certain actions. 
does anyone have good examples of platforms that do something similar well? i don't think this is something i've come across in the wild before so i don't have much expertise on what the ideal experience would be. any examples or advice is much appreciated. thank you!

close button if there's already a cross in the interface?
hello,
i see that in windows we have the close button even if there's the cross but in mac just the cross. i think it's more logic and low effort for the devs that if there's the cross we don't need the close button.
is there any guideline about this subject?
&#x200b;
[windows](https://preview.redd.it/k0ppiewuiewc1.png?width=652&format=png&auto=webp&s=8617482d08a5a9c8277dc4a6105f442b03f7124d)
[mac](https://preview.redd.it/n4ghqzp4jewc1.png?width=1666&format=png&auto=webp&s=1e62d3f4c89877941a4f65e8ee1bf59308b469d7)
thanks !!

as a ux designer in 2024, how would i upscale myself and improve my product thinking and design thinking skills?
also need advice what skills to show in the portfolio

instructions
so in my webiste i want the users to do some certain task before they try actuall service  ( a desing interface like room decor ) .  for example when they first enter the website i will ask them to do some basic task so they understand how the website works like zoom , rotate , add, delete but the problem is even after giving set of imstructions the users 50 percemt unable to do this .
i instructed them how to zoom ( for all the tasks ) in 3d space via gif, video , text instruction and a indicator to show where to zoom but still they unable to understand it. 
can some one help me with this .???

anyone here not using figma? what are you using and why?
i’m curious if there are design orgs or even developers out there using alternates and what that looks like.

looking for similar gen ai selection/highlighted patterns
where can i find similar patterns/references where users are able to select an specific piece of content from a highlighted group and provide feedback to it? it doesn't have to be exclusively related to ai assistants.
https://reddit.com/link/1cbi0q6/video/ba7mlsl91bwc1/player

aprendizaje continuo en ux
el aprendizaje continuo es la piedra angular del éxito en el diseño ux. como profesionales en un campo dinámico que evoluciona constantemente, entendemos la importancia de mantener la curiosidad, la adaptabilidad y la apertura a nuevas ideas. a través del aprendizaje continuo, ampliamos nuestro conocimiento de las tecnologías emergentes, las tendencias de la industria y los comportamientos de los usuarios, lo que nos permite innovar y superar los límites del diseño. 🚀💡 ya sea a través de talleres, cursos en línea, conferencias o colaboración entre pares, aprovechamos las oportunidades para profundizar nuestra experiencia y perfeccionar nuestras habilidades. 👩‍💻📚 al priorizar el aprendizaje continuo, no solo mantenemos nuestra relevancia en un panorama competitivo, sino que también fomentamos el crecimiento personal y profesional, garantizando que brindamos experiencias de usuario excepcionales que resuenan en las audiencias ahora y en el futuro. #ux  
[https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7188657258904383489/](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7188657258904383489/)

what is the best ux/ui you have experienced in a vr video game?
i am designing a vr experience with the company i work for right now. we are lacking on ux/ui understanding in this space.
i am wondering if you have vr game in mind that had great tutorials, ui (such as highlighting items when needing to interact with it), and generally a comforting and enjoyable gameplay experience. thanks in advance.

the element of user experience vs design thinking vs the product development life cycle
like the title says above, what's the different between **the element of user experience vs design thinking vs the product development life cycle** . are they just different ux framework and i can use any of them in my design process? can you combine any of them together for a smoother process? any tips would be appreciated.

how do you “think outside of the box”
i was given this feedback recently and would love to hear exercises and design processes that you guys use to “think outside of the box” when designing new features

design case study: physical over touch control
i read a rumor the new airpods case were going to have a touchscreen! i discussed this with a fellow frog design colleague michael ditullo over email and.... well, one thing lead to another and we published this article at core77.
i'm actually quite proud of this design and this approach in general. physical controls are harder to do, no question, but there are huge benefits we need to discuss and appreciate more.
[https://www.core77.com/posts/131912/tactile-controls-in-a-digital-world?utm\_source=core77&utm\_medium=from\_title#](https://www.core77.com/posts/131912/tactile-controls-in-a-digital-world?utm_source=core77&utm_medium=from_title#)

is a masters in human computer interaction worth it?
hi there!
a little about my background : i’m 23f with a finance degree and transitioning to ux. i’m from india and would like to pursue masters from the usa.
i have shortlisted a few universities:
georgia tech
iupui
arizona state university 
i have a few questions :
1. coming from finance background, how difficult will it be for me to get admitted?
2. i know the job market is bad. your thoughts on what the future might hold for ux designers in usa? (say after 2-3 years)
3. what salary range can i expect after completing my masters in hci? (i have done my research on google but would like to hear from experienced people)
4. any feedback or recommendations on my shortlisted universities? 
thanks a lot in advance!

i'm willing to relocate to the us for a product designer role. how can i increase my chances? i know it's tough and i'm up for it.
product designer with \~3 yoe here. designer salaries aren't great in my country. i still aspire to work for a big company. i'm best at what i do but i'm not getting paid well.  
am i being too delusional to think i can pull this off? is it realistic to even think that a faang company would give me an offer and also go through the hassle of sponsoring me a visa?

usability study disguised as a job
so i found a ux designer job on linkedin which required to complete a small test through the following link:
[https://t.maze.co/229520454](https://t.maze.co/229520454)
and on that link, waiting for me, was just a straight up usability study asking me to 'complete a task' or 'how a certain screen feels like'.  what are you thought on this?

pokemon go clone, ux question on managing cards of same type, but different evolved stats on a deckbuilder on a mobile device.
hello,
before pokemon go came out, i designed a similar game 9 years prior, but waited for people with big legal pockets so i wasn't known as the guy who gets kids run over.
after go came out, on a whim, i let a family member make a game with me so he could tell his friends he made a video game.
www.crystalfighter.com/battlemon
he spent hundreds of hours with crayon. i spent thousands in code and i can make custom gps quests in parks... problem is, if you download the game from the link... card management ui is complete and absolute trash.
i'm primarily a desktop user so navigation on a phone eludes me.
also while most games like hearthstone will let you pick cards from a group... my cards have a sub group, with all different stats depending on how you get them and train them.
i was looking for advice on how to lay out a card game on client side.  i'm thinking of using unity ux since it has android compileability.  prior to this, it was written in adobe flashbuilder.
thanks for any ideas,
jim

writing a blog on color and information design, what are some questions you have that i can cover? ideas for topics?
i am an information designer and ui/ux and i am writing a blog on color for my work. a colleague has already covered color theory, palettes, and touched on general tips for accessibility and branding. what are new topics that i can cover? ideally, i'd love to take this opportunity to write from experience and help designers answer questions on color.

creating a neutral color palette
hi :wave: 
question about creating color design tokens (primitive & semantic colors). how do you decide the 'neutral' color gradients? do you base it off your brand's body text color - and then go from there? and are you also choosing field borders, divider line colors etc. from the 'neutral' palette as well?

is there a design for a multilanguage form?
i have a form, that need to be filled with several languages, is there a design for something like this... until now i just manage to make this:
&#x200b;
https://preview.redd.it/8g8iijyi72wc1.png?width=657&format=png&auto=webp&s=2d3b75685e171751241eef916cf82d1711f6943a
the user can change or input infor for each language...

feel completely stuck in my role, apathetic and not sure what to do next
i’ll try to make this as concise and understandable as possible. i’m a junior/mid-level designer working for a large, global company undergoing a complete overhaul of our digital channels, including the creation of a new shoppable website and app. i joined as an intern around the project's inception in 2021 and was hired as a full-time designer about six months later. i am part of a small us design team consisting of myself, another designer, a usability testing specialist, and our supervisor (who pretty much acts as a product owner). while we have local and global pos for the project, they are largely useless to us, which is a much larger issue i won't delve into here. my manager is design-focused and supportive of change, but progress stalls beyond her role in the organizational hierarchy.
in summary, the product i work on falls under the ownership of the global side of our business, where decisions and designs are centralized, and changes cascade to various countries in development. i would say that the business as a whole is moderately design mature, but nowhere near where it should be for a business of this scale. there are much larger issues in the organization, but one of them is that the global teams are not very receptive to the design suggestions/improvements that the countries provide to them, despite being backed up by research and data from customers who currently use our channels. siloing within and between teams, both locally and globally, makes it difficult to see sustainable progress. we’re fed lies from our higher leadership that change is on the horizon but it never comes (shocker, welcome to corporate america i guess).
the problem for me specifically though is that my progress has become extremely stagnant and i’m afraid won’t be transferrable; i feel extremely stuck in my role here and i have become very apathetic toward my work. i have worked on this project for a total of almost 3 years with almost no real work to show (that has shipped) due to the decisions of larger global teams taking precedence. every design that my team and i bring to stakeholders in the project is rejected or highly altered in favor of those created by the global design teams. 
i would say that my salary is appropriate for the area i live in, i have great benefits and an amazing team (locally), great work-life balance, i love the company overall, etc. which makes this all even more difficult for me. i feel stuck here but am not sure how to proceed and take the next steps to get out. should i use the free time i have to learn more transferable skills? get a design mentor to hone in on the things that i can improve upon? work on personal projects to beef up my portfolio? i am fed up with the repetitive empty promises made by leadership, i really love design and want to see growth in myself and my work. although the state of the job market and my seeming lack of skills make it easy for me to regress and stay put where i feel comfortable now.

i need review on the flow of portfolio checking?
i find difficulty in showing the % change in home screen on different time frames. also the side menu in the admin panel looks off i think, no idea why or how to improve it.
here is my figma to check it out:  
[https://www.figma.com/file/ziawn6gds0beq2du2eehfc/ftouni-capital?type=design&node-id=0%3a1&mode=design&t=oc3golnv4tfcjxko-1](https://www.figma.com/file/ziawn6gds0beq2du2eehfc/ftouni-capital?type=design&node-id=0%3a1&mode=design&t=oc3golnv4tfcjxko-1)

where else do you talk about design online?
as much as i have learned about design and my chosen career from everyone here, i find that the majority of posts are either from burnt out designers hating their job or baby designers looking for advice. while both are absolutely important topics to discuss, i'm curious if there are any other online spaces you visit to chat more about our field and discipline that are more geared towards knowledge sharing, tips, etc. as opposed to the more career/job-specific topics we commonly see here.

conditional text entry based on other selection on a form, should i disable or hide?
i am designing a criteria screen for a graph.  it will be used without training.
i have a bunch of conditional inputs for the report, ie if you select a dropdown and choose option a, textbox x is no longer relevant.
is it better to disable those irrelevent text boxes or would it be better to hide and show them?  or something else?  i'm using material 3.  if i'm hiding and showing would it be best to show and hide them slowly (animated) or pop in and out?
the criteria screen will be accessible from mobile so one consideration is space on the screen.
there are perhaps 10 different criteria the user can select and only 3 of those are dependent on other elements.

has anyone come across a solution to this particular problem? can't seem to find a way around it that's acceptable to stakeholders. (explanation in comments)
https://www.reddit.com/gallery/1ca6c0d

could my app's design be improved?
i've outsourced the design of several apps to designers in the past, but i've been disappointed with the results. the designs i received weren't much different from what i, as a developer, had created. they mostly just changed colors or button sizes.
this time, the app is really simple, especially a home view has just showing scores, count of screens, and a button to watch videos.
could even such a simple app benefit from finding a talented designer?
https://preview.redd.it/kk1ek3vo7zvc1.jpg?width=1290&format=pjpg&auto=webp&s=205bfe96b170e73088f2d3ba6502e00fe5fb2e7a
https://preview.redd.it/v4riu4vo7zvc1.jpg?width=1290&format=pjpg&auto=webp&s=0f369358f884a42b2327e8656f925f67467bec15

examples of great pricing pages?
hello! currently re-evaluating a pricing page and i'm looking for examples of where it's been done really well. we're a subscription funded saas product, but i'm looking for very broad inspiration for effective ways to package information for easy digesting. i would really appreciate any suggestions for interesting examples.

what ux improvements would you suggest for my agency website?
i have a list of things i want to improve. help me add to it!
[https://crazycreative.design/](https://crazycreative.design/)
&#x200b;
1. overall page is too long (is it possible to cut some sections?)
2. sticky nav to jump around easily
3. pricing should be more thought out
4. ...
5. ...
6. ...
7. help me add to this list
&#x200b;
thanks in advance!

how to test figma prototype with predifined examples
hey ux'ers,
i'm new as a ux'er and i am going to test a figma prototype of an app soon. the actual product will consist of an ai-assistant that can write down what you say, and the possibility of writing by using pictograms.
in figma i have made predefined examples of what the ai assistent could write when you speak to it and a few sentences that you could write using pictograms. but the question is how i create a usability test of it when their is only a few examples or flows ? donno if it makes sense to give them a task, if they can only choose one way/few ways anyways because it is predefined? 
hope to get some inspiration from you guys.
thanks 😊💪

freelancing with agencies
i'm looking for a new role and i'm exploring freelancing with agencies that might be looking for additional talent/contractors if they are busy or require ux expertise. does anyone have insights on what  the current climate look like at agencies, with companies downsizing? are agencies busy and looking to add people to their roster or have projects they can contract out? 
i've worked in this capacity with one agency, but they've since gone hybrid and are hiring full timers. is there anyone who has worked in this capacity - how did you go about finding such freelance roles? thanks.

is having 7 sections in the menu bar, too crowded ?
just curious as if having 7 sections in the header menu bar is a bit too much ?
what is the normal amount of sections to have in a me menu bar.
by sections, i mean 1 home, 2 news, careers, etc etc etc.

what's the consensus with this type of animation?
[https://antoineenault.com/#studio](https://antoineenault.com/#studio)
what do you think of this type of animation? i've seen similar things lately. 
\*if you know how to do this, please dm me. i'd love to know. lol

what’s the best thing that happened to you in a design event / conference?
for those of you attending irl events, has there been an activity, experience, talk, moment that changed you?
someone you met?
something you learned?
some interaction you had?
something you got?
curious to hear your anecdotes!

would you use a brown color as a main accent color for the app?🟤
as a main accent color for interface i mean that it is used for primary buttons, active states and for different selectors, illustrations etc. the app i work for use brown/green/khaki color as a main color which i questioned from the very beginning. now they want to redesign/rebrand the app and i need some arguments on why this color is not benefiting us. personally i haven’t seen any app which uses this color as a primary. this app is a dating app.

evolution of whatsapp ui for android
https://i.redd.it/u4j5rnohqmvc1.jpeg

when will ux jobs bounce back?
i'm just starting, considering doing a masters in ux design, realistically it will be a couple of years form now before im ready to start looking for a job.
do we feel things may have picked up by then or could it get worse?

what do y’all think of the new instagram ux/ui?
idk, i don’t think i personally like the button suggestions for the search. like i feel like the emojis add a different feel to it. but i think the ai feature can be nice. thoughts?

thoughts on this?
this was going viral on linkedin. i understand the value of trauma-informed design, but this feels a bit melodramatic. 
i think there’s a threshold of what trauma can be accommodated by apps in certain spaces. like, i could understand if this was myfitnesspal or something else in the health/security space; however, getting triggered by a sarcastic cartoon owl telling you to practice spanish feels like something that should be addressed by a therapist. not a ux designer. 
p.s. please do not go find and harass this person. i anonymized it for a reason. it has over 1000 engagements, though, so feels like fair game to comment on.

this subreddit is magnificent and i will read your ux-complaints with a song in my step.
please enjoy this well styled accordion! 
https://preview.redd.it/u8xjgysjxhvc1.png?width=1868&format=png&auto=webp&s=e7854b107e71e63c1a783b6ec8b8be291f5af77d
now stay tuned for my manifesto on the state of the industry... ;)

thoughts on putting rejected job projects on portfolio?
i recently went through the initial interview stages for a job, and was asked to do a project to showcase my skills. 
basically the project was redesigning one page of their app that has a currently outdated design. not a ton of context around user data or anything, but i ended up being happy/proud of my end result, and i feel that i made some well-informed design decisions overall. 
i ultimately was not selected for the role (i did ask if they had any feedback to provide on my design and have yet to hear back), but i still feel that it could be a good portfolio piece. 
is it a weird/bad idea to include it in my portfolio? happy to give more context in the comments.

what is your process for maintaining consistency of components across design, development, and production?
currently struggle with developers creating their own components or not reusing what we already have built. how do you maintain consistency across production? what is your process for introducing new components? how do you keep track of all the components on production?

seeking advice: designing a dashboard for a client's mvp
hello everyone!  
i'm currently facing a design challenge and i'd like to request your valuable help and perspective. i'm working on designing a dashboard/back office desktop for a client who is developing an mvp (minimum viable product). the main challenge lies in the fact that this dashboard only needs to include two core functionalities, leaving a significant amount of blank space that i need to effectively fill to enhance user experience and make the design more attractive and functional.  
i'd like to gather some ideas and resources on how to maximize the use of these empty spaces without adding unnecessary features that may overwhelm the user or distract them from the main tasks. does anyone have prior experience with similar situations or suggestions on how to address this issue?

how do i highlight my ui skills in my portfolio, as a ux designer?
(apologies there's no ui design flair, but i do think this applies to ux desgin too)
i'm a ux designer with 4 years of experience. i've worked in a company where a design system was already in place, but i worked on building and maintaining it, worked on new components and interaction states etc. i've been using figma for years, i'm very focused on accessibility and i also have extensive experience in user research work. 
my portfolio has a couple of good projects in there, one showing an iterative design process, one is a project where there was a very tight deadline and interesting data challenges. i also showcase my work on the design system.
i've been looking for work for 4 months. during one interview, i was told my ux portfolio is strong, but they asked how much ui experience i have. can't remember what i replied, but after the interview i was worried they wouldn't get back to me. to my surprise, they actually did proceed to the second round with me, where i had the chance to showcase my ui skills in a design task. i got really positive feedback, but unfortunately, the company then went to an unexpected recruitment freeze, which i was so sad about. they did tell me they would reach out in a few months, so i'll see how that goes. 
i've just had another intro chat with a recruiter for a startup company. didn't make it through to the next round because apparently they found a candidate with more ui experience. of course, as i only spoke to a recruiter, we didn't talk about my design skills in particular so this decision is clearly off the back of my portfolio. 
my question is- how do i, as a ux designer, showcase specific ui skills? i have not had any work experience where ui is the sole focus, so i don't know how to highlight that more. i haven't designed an app or website from scratch, without the existence of a style guide/design system/brand already, and i don't really think it's realistic to expect that? i'm so bummed so any advice would be great!

share your good experiences
we all know the stories about bad experiences - underappreciated designers, resistance to proper processes, unrealistic home assignments, difficulty finding jobs... 
while all these exist, they only represent a portion of our shared experiences. i know i've had my fare share of frustration, but i also love my job and i've had many many moments of joy, success, appreciation, great collaboration with team members and stakeholders and other awesome moments.
i remembered once i needed to prove the value of usability testing to our vp product that was religiously against the idea, so i undermined him, set up a test and broadcast it to the entire company live. after years of selling the product it was the first time they saw somebody actually using it. needless to say minds were blown and from that moment the same vp product demanded weekly usability tests.
---
what were your good experiences as ux/product designers?

what is recent ux strategies you observed reasonable?
hi, just a quick ux talk. have you come across any ux strategies recently that are not just aesthetical but also clearly demonstrate an intention driven by the business and user goals? whether it was good, bad, or just noticeable in its own way, i'd love to hear about any recent ux interactions that have stuck with you. even small, nuanced details that caught your attention that are worth sharing.
mine is airbnb's approach where they overlay the host's photo and detailed information on top of hotel listing photos, almost like a photo album. knowing that one of airbnb's ongoing challenges is the issue of trust between hosts and guests, this ux design seems like a cute attempt to address it. this might be a bit outdated, but it's the most memorable example i can recall.

is there a specific title/role for a design systems designer?
i'm a mid-level product/ux designer who has always really enjoyed organizing and building design systems. i enjoy each part of the ux process. of course, but this is the area i love the most. i've tried to do research on roles that mainly focus on building out design systems, but haven't found much information (google's brought up dozens of 'systems designer' results instead), so i'm wondering if this is a role that hardly exists at all. if so, what roles are responsible for design systems in mid-size to larger companies, and what steps would one take to specialize in that area? (or is that even a good idea lol)

two types of r/uxdesign users
user a: i have 60 years of experience at apple as a chief design office and cant find a job after 10 years and 1000000 applications and 20000 interviews. 
user b: i have a job as a junior ux designer paying me 6 figures but i don’t have anything too do and i am too bored, should i quit and switch careers?

case study and portfolio in english even though i’m in spain?
hello! question for people who work outside the united states or other english-speaking countries.
i am an entry-level user experience designer who is starting to work on my portfolio, and i was wondering in which language to do it. i see that many companies use english in the workplace, but i don't know if doing it in english could alienate spanish-speaking ones.

taxonomy question: really long tags
hey folks, i'm having trouble finding anything about this problem and i'm not a taxonomy expert. 
i'm working for a client with a lot of projects under their purview, and the projects all have very long names. and they need to exist as tags. since spelling them out would create absurdly long tags, the client suggested using acronyms. but the acronyms themselves are 5-10 characters long! i posited that not all users would know what these acronyms stand for, but we're a bit stuck on other ways to handle it. 
for context, here's a made-up example of how these projects are named: "southern massachusetts interdisciplinary coalition for migratory bird health tracking". so if we don't want the tag to be that or "smicmbht" wwyd?

why would a startup opt for an agency’s design services when they already have a ui/ux designer on staff?
i have a partnership with an agency as a side gig, and i’ve just acquired a client (spain) who’s asking me to design a dashboard app for their services. while doing some research, i discovered they already have a ui/ux designer in-house. i’m wondering why they’re not utilizing their internal designer for the design?.

is public speaking part of a ux designers job?
i’ve been a ux designer for a few years now and recently joined a new company. up until joining this new company i’ve never really needed to present anything to more than five or six involved stakeholders but now i’m being asked to do show and tell style presentations to groups of 100+ and it fills me with dread! there wasn’t anything about public speaking in the job spec. 
i’m interested in other designers experience with this and if it’s just part of the job at most companies?
i’m in the uk if that makes any difference.

depth in notification design in settings
friends, i just wanted to take this opportunity to share how important it is to use simple and clear language in the app notification settings on android and ios. 
try not to use the term 'miscellaneous' or 'marketing notofications' go more in depth. break the notifications into cleatly labelled sub groups for each aspect of he user journey. the smaller the group the better. add your descriptions user. 
doing so you would be catering to users with dyslexia and different forms of aphasia even performance anxiety.  
periodically conduct your error design workshops with your microcopy team, to keep them fresh and relevant.

ui problem seeking , why is no one participating in our campaign? nowdays people donot like freebies anymore？tell me any advice and don't fear to be offensive !
https://i.redd.it/0w2pgb6177vc1.png

wtf, instagram
https://www.reddit.com/gallery/1c6gmuh

what’s the hardest whiteboard challenge you have ever done for a job interview.
i have one next friday, i hope it’s not something crazy unrealistic task.

do you like the line weight of the “+”
do you like the new menu icons on reddit? i like them better but the create icon seems off.

how bad is the market really?
incoming college senior wondering if i’m really doomed and should pivot or go to grad school to get a job. i have 3 internship experiences none with super flashy companies, ux research, passion projects, and club experience. does anyone have insight on how the job hunt will be if i’m open to any location, any role ux/hci related, open to any (remote,hybrid,in person). basically what i’m saying is that i’m not picky at all i just want a job, how hard will it be?

slanted hexagonal image trend
i've been noticing a trend that images are being contained in this slanted hexagonal shape. is there an official name to this trend? also, is this easy to replicate in css or any other web tools?
https://preview.redd.it/iw6k7i6f1zuc1.jpg?width=590&format=pjpg&auto=webp&s=b15afd317cc1480ab10125acb3708633eae5928a

what's essential in ux design resume?
hey design recruiters, after having applied to 100+ f jobs and changing resumes almost 30 to 40 times. i still haven't landed any interviews for ux design internship.
now, i'm at a point where i wonder what are the design recruiters looking for? can you help me understand which of the following matters the most to you?
1) design and layout
2) metrics
3) skills
4) experience and projects
any help in understanding these factors will set a direction for next set of applications.

it's almost like some devs don't actually test their sites
i'm a school librarian testing out some different catalogue management websites. nearly all of them offer the same features, but most have the same glaring problem: too many unnecessary clicks. 
as a librarian, i need to quickly scan a patron's library card to pull up their account, then scan each of their books to check them out. in theory, there should be no clicking at all, though i am fine with clicking from one text input field to another when switching from scanning the card to scanning the books. 
i don't understand why all these software devs feel the need to add a bunch of extra steps to a simple process. for example, on one software i've tested, i would have to first click: "search patron", then scan their card, then after scanning click "search", then click the patrons name, then click "confirm", then i'd have to click "add new book" (its the only clickable option other than 'back'), then i'd have to select the search box. i'd get to scan one book before clicking "submit". if the patron wants to check out more than one book, i have to then go back to "add new book." 
how did these horrible softwares make it past development? was no one testing the actual usability? like, it takes me 2 minutes of trying it out to say "nope, next."
maybe one of you ux designers can make this make sense to me, because i just don't understand how they're all this bad.

junior ux let go for being bad
i was the only designer at my first job at a startup and was just let go. of course i learned a lot at the job, but the feedback that i received was 
- being more authoritative
- prototyping more quickly
- thinking outside of the box
of course i’d like to improve these things in my next job- does anyone have any advice for how to become better at these things and what do they mean? 
edit authoritarian replaced with authoritative

seeking advice on user onboarding flows
hi everyone! i'm deciding between two user onboarding flows for a private mobile app, in other words the manager sent me an excel sheet containing info on the app users, like their emails, phone number..:
1. admin creates user accounts and provides temporary sign-in credentials via email, requiring users to reset the password on first login.
2. users sign up set up their accounts themselves.
which option provides a better user experience? looking for insights on security, ease of use, and initial engagement.

what is your office setup? do you have problems taking meetings?
i'm trying to get a sense of what is normal, because to me, my current work environment is not normal for what is supposed to be a nice tech office, but everyone else seems to think its annoying, but just fine.
\--------------
i currently work for a consultancy with an open office layout. the desks are very small and close together. there's really only space for one monitor per desk, and if 2 people near each other are on a call, background noise is a major issue.
we have a variety of rooms with tvs where you can plug in your monitor. but then you are at a table with an uncomfortable chair, no mouse or keyboard, and a big tv far away instead of computer monitors. hooking up to the tv is awkward. if you don't do it all the time, it's easy to forget how to get it working right.
taking a meeting is a constant problem. moving around and using different equipment is stressful and distracting when i'm trying to walk a client through a lot of details, and get answers. it also causes a lot of eye strain and back pain after an hour on a bad chair stairing at the tv. so i stubbornly stay at my desk with everything the way i need it. i'm also considering working from home more to avoid the noise problems during important meetings.
previously, i worked in a more traditional office with giant cubicles, each with 2 big monitors and a docking station. you rarely needed to move, but if you ever did need to move for noise issues, it was super easy to dock into a different cubicle.
i've seen other open offices, but the desks or tables are very large and spaced out so theres room for multiple monitors, and less noise interference.
whenever this issue comes up in conversation, i feel like i'm the office diva, but until this job, i never had to even think about these things, they were non-issues!
\------------
so, what is normal for you? how do you take meetings, is it a problem?
&#x200b;

can you tell when an app or website wasn't designed by a ux?
i know this question might seem a bit silly, but i constantly catch myself analyzing every website or app i use. 
it's really frustrating when i see poor ux in freaking 2024.
especially considering how bad the market is for uxers.
but rant aside, what gives away that a product wasn't done by a ux?

should i show ui work if i'm applying for a product design\ux-ui role?
hello, im a ux designer with a year of experiece. right now i’m looking for a job and therefore working on my portfolio, case studies and boosting my ui,ux design skills with what i can learn online and practicing. but i got a question regarding what i should show on my portfolio page, i am mainly looking for a ux\\ui or product design job. i was wondering if i should not only show my ux case studies but also show my ui work (which is like dribble shots that look pretty but wouldn’t go past some user testing) my question is, do recruiters will find it valuable to see those ui projects that have some ux flaws but they can see what i’m capable of doing ui-wise. do you think it’s worth it?

big discovery: 2000 ux carnegie mellon designer responsible for the virtual keyboard we all take for granted on the iphone/android. same man designed the cloud and the three button navigation (back/task/home), scheduling and some radical things not yet implemented!
https://twitter.com/jamessager/status/1779905533153100034

does dream jobs exist in reality? a job where i would be excited to go to, work for and give my best?
do they exist or i feel bad for stuck in a company and job i don’t like for no reason?

“ai doesn’t need to be good enough to take your job, it just needs to be good enough to make your boss think it can”
i like this comment from the pivot podcast. hopefully the backpedaling will be quick.

calling this the “peek a boo”, an alternative to the notifications icon/panel
made this concept over the weekend cause i was annoyed with the overload of red dots and notification buzzes. this concept aims to give the user the option to view/unview notifications and not to completely shut them off.

is the gap between ui/ux bootcamp/certification  training and real-word job requirements too wide?
how significant do you think this issue is?
i’ve been very curious about this question and would love to hear from both graduates and/or those of you who have experience with hiring them. 
also, any thoughts on how programs might better equip folks just coming into this field for professional work? i’d love to hear your stories and insights about this. 
thanks in advance!

how do you manage stress as a ux designer?
or researcher? or strategist? or short term freelancer? or project-based freelancer?
&#x200b;
how do you deal with things like:
• mountains of data
• short timelines
• high expectations
• becoming an expert on a complex topic
• solution generation
• workshopping with nonux
• rapidly expanding responsibilities or being spread too thin
• more senior leaders or uxers critiquing or overriding your design decisions 
• balancing deliverables with tight and actionable decks or pixel perfect design, while also trying to gain deep understanding of the problem space, as well as providing practical and/or visionary features
&#x200b;
interested in hearing your situation as a whole, your stressors and how to reduce or adjust to make you calmer, more focused, setting better expectations? (can be a mix of personal habits or working with your larger ux and/or product team.)  
do you have success stories or failure stories?

figuring out ways to not use widgets on my phone anymore. this one is called window shopping.
https://v.redd.it/3ee68av8bfuc1

how to deal with an unfunded startups that needs design help?
some cofounders need me to spend some time to fix up the web experience of an online retail startup.
however the startup is yet to grow enough to pay me upfront and they expect me to become a core member eventually with ‘some’ equity later (but not sure when).
how does one ensure fair compensation in such cases, so as to avoid waste of time and efforts?

what are some unique ux/ui interaction patterns that stands out to you in 2024?
hi.
i need help. i’m designing a mobile app and is looking for inspiration of unique ux/ui interaction patterns in 2024. 
an example is tinder swipe left and swipe right to like and dislike the content. the interaction is satisfying and provide a moment of delight for the user. this was a great ux/ui interaction when it first came out. since then i have not encountered any interaction that is the same unique and memorable level as tinder. 
• what are similar ux/ui interactions that is unique and satisfying like that in 2024?
• what are the best inspirational sites for such mobile ui interactions in 2024?
thank you.

new design challenge program for figma
hi, i recently published a set of design challenges in figma for ux/ui designers that want to practice different parts of the design process! just as a resource for other designers. if you want to check it out, here's the [link](https://www.figma.com/community/file/1359710538674148136/figma-design-challenges).
hopefully this is a helpful tool for newer designers especially to get more familiar with each stage of the general process. let me know what you think!
&#x200b;
https://preview.redd.it/efwkmx7kt5uc1.png?width=2523&format=png&auto=webp&s=aba54b266ba267172844a1a20a74896f3396f1ee

have you ever heard of anyone getting a job by writing to a company and showing them how their ux needs improving?
maybe consulting work, if not a full time job?

i’m literally sad/done/fed up with this hypocrisy!!! *indian tech industry*
just saw product leaders from google/microsoft showering praises and love to this product on linkedin. people are losing their shit because the founders are from iim and iit. non-iim/iitians get slammed for slighest of the copy mistakes. i just feel like k*ll*ng myself for being a designer and caring for design.

motion design for ux designers
hi, i’m currently working as a senior ux designer. my background isn’t in visual arts so while i have a good grasp of design principles and am able to apply them, i fall behind from my colleagues on certain skills, most noticeably motion design. 
my question, especially for leads and/or staff level designers, is: how much do you value motion design skills in a senior level ux designer? 
thanks in advance for any inputs!

i have designed a product for another company to make. how do i get paid?!
hi, assuming most of you work with product development teams, can you suggest the best path forward for a hobbyist with a great idea for an established manufacturer?!
i've built a working model of a useful product, based on mating an existing thing with a common tool battery platform. i haven't invented anything, i've just brought two things together that seem obvious when you see it.
i believe that commercial production could have significant potential for the tool company that embraces it, not only by selling lots of the item, but by expanding the appeal of their platform to an even wider audience.
i don't expect one idea to make me rich, and i doubt i could patent anything about it, but nobody has made it yet and i think the product would generate value that i would like to benefit from.
what should i do? is it just a case of requesting a meeting and getting them to sign an nda?! have you seen this done? anything i should be aware of?

latest and greatest mobile hci & ux research
i am moving to also working with mobile apps after a long while, and i would like to delve deep into the latest and greatest research done on mobile hci & ux and usability and user research.  
any articles, blogs, books you can recommend? people to follow?  
to clarify, i'm not looking for ui trends (though you can also include those if you have a great resource), but rather scientific research. i would like to update myself and see if there are some changes to what i have studied and learned and used before.

miserable at role — are ux jobs that hard to come by?
hiya, i’m the sole ux/ui designer of a fast-paced startup in california. i’m almost three years in but because of the workload i can not perform to my full capacity and am blamed for not taking ownership of moving the organization forward.
i’m naturally hard on myself and ask for no easy routes but even my hard nosed pm has gone up to bat for me several times. i’ve accumulated a lot of gray hair in these past two years and while i enjoy a rush it’s just too much. 
my point: is it that hard to find another ux/ui role out there??

is innovation dead?
as a continuation of my 10-part series, starting with “is the design process dead?” (
https://www.reddit.com/r/uxdesign/s/8hqdqnnpm) i am curious to hear thoughts on if innovation is dead in our industry? 
now hear me out, that is a scary thing to think about in a world of trillion dollar companies who got where they are due to innovation, and not to mention the potential of ai!?
based on my initial post regarding design processes and some recent research done in  the product management space, a common theme is the notion that companies who claim they are innovative are not willing to invest money in finding out what people actually want,  nor do great new ideas ever get the support and follow through they need to see the light of day. (the notion that mvp2 is where great ideas go to die). 
what kind of support do you get with making new, cutting edge things? are you just trying to update your systems to the 21st century and don’t have time or budget for next generation concepts? is your company pushing ai despite that fact any application you present won’t even be looked at for 5 more years?

a plea/tip from a ux hiring manager
i don’t know when or why it became a trend to not prepare a well throughout presentation of 2-3 projects you’ve worked on and instead bounce around a work file in figma, but please stop doing it. if you want to make your portfolio presentation in figma and present it as slides that’s fine. but moving around in a messy figma file full of screens is hard for interviewers to follow, especially when accompanied with stream of consciousness. it also shows a poor ability to tell a story and present, 2 key components of influencing and ux design. 
take the time to put together a deck with a couple of slides about you, and then 2-3 detailed projects that include info on what you did, how you influenced the project, challenges, how you over came them, and data and outcomes. 
also, for the rest of the interview, know how to answer situational questions (the star method) because many companies use these now, and know how to do a whiteboarding exercise. 
it’s unsettling how many interviews in the past month i have ended 15 minutes in because candidates aren’t presenting. i even have the recruiters giving explicit instructions on how to present to us. it’s the fastest way to see your interview ended.

are ux designers with frontend skills in demand?
greetings, fellow ux:ers!
i find myself in a bit of a career conundrum and would greatly appreciate some insights from the community. to provide some context, i hold a degree in frontend development, but my professional journey took a little turn when i transitioned into ux design for my first job about a year ago.
over this past year, i've delved deep into the world of ux design and found a genuine passion for it. however, i can't shake the feeling that my background in frontend development could be both a blessing and a curse in my pursuit of a career in ux design. i'm now on the job hunt because like everyone else i was laid off due to budget cuts.
my main question is: are ux designers with an understanding of frontend development sought after in the job market? and if so, how should i effectively communicate my hybrid skill set in job applications and interviews?
i don't have recent frontend-specific projects to showcase, most of my work the last year has been ux related. i've remained familiar with frontend development, possess the necessary skills, and have provided support to frontend developers in my role as a ux designer. however, i'm hesitant about how to present this experience effectively to potential employers without pigeonholing myself into a role i'm not as passionate about.
any advice or personal experiences shared would be greatly appreciated!
thank you in advance.

what do you call such a design pattern typically seen in landing pages?
https://v.redd.it/f1efvy82nwtc1

what do you do during downtime? i’m terrified of not having work to do.
i’m in my second week at a new contract role and there’s so little to do. i’m working at a tech giant that’s notorious for being slow. in my first week, a handful of coworkers have told me “things move really slow around here.” but recently, i’ve grown to be terrified of downtime. 
a little background: i got laid off from another large company last august. my workload just kept getting smaller and smaller, until they didn’t need me anymore. now i’m afraid that if i don’t constantly make meaningful contributions that are highly visible to the org, i’m going to lose my job. and there’s no way in hell i want to go on another painful 7 month job hunt.
i’ve told my manager that i’m ready to take on another project, but he hasn’t given me any more work yet. so what do you all do during downtime?

mega menu help
hello,   
i'm currently working on a project that involves creating a mega menu. this menu, upon being expanded, reveals a sidebar navigation with two sections: "dept" and "apps." under "apps," there are categories, each housing up to five applications.
my challenge is to design this menu without resorting to nested navigation, as the client believes this could escalate development costs. my initial approach was to mirror the design commonly seen on ecommerce websites. however, my manager has requested alternative solutions, expressing concerns that displaying all apps simultaneously might overwhelm users. additionally, there's a requirement to incorporate features allowing users to mark apps as favorites and to view short descriptions of each app.
i would greatly appreciate any creative input or ideas on how to tackle this design challenge.

what is missing here?
there is something(s) critical missing in this web site experience!   it is a personality test of sorts that has you choose between two images, and the system figures out over time a bunch of useful personality-like information.   after 100 or so questions, you can go get a report that shows multiple types of results.   for instance, it figures out your likely "love language", or your enneagram, etc.   the results are based on different sources and we give you a link to the source.    additionally, while you are taking the test, we show you preliminary results every 20 questions.
my issue is that i just don't like it!   there is something wrong in the sense that it doesn't seem to flow or be a natural experience.   how do i fix this??
(the site is fully functional and online (http://personalitysequencer.com) if you want to try it)

what styles should the ‘cancel’ and the ‘confirm’ button have?
when the user wants to end a service, should  the confirm button be the more or less prominent button? and should the more prominent button be aligned on the left or right side?

why won't senior designer demo their work?
i'm part of a fairly large ux team (around 15 designers) working on various parts of a single product. one of our more senior designers never demos their work with the team until very final hi-fi stages of the design. it's so frustrating. the rest of the team is very good at showing work at all stages of the process. their justification is that "the designs are probably going to change, so there's no point in getting feedback", but it feels like they don't respect anyone's opinion. it's also hard to get a sense of what is going on with other squads with this sort of mentality until it's too late.
anyone else deal with this? is there some other justification for never showing work?
edit:  
updating with a comment i left on a previous thread: since we all work on different parts of the same product patterns can sometimes change without having a lot of context to why or how they are affecting other teams. so yeah it affects my work often. it creates a very siloed team

colors for a transportation tech startup
i just started as the solo designer for a tech startup in the shipping industry. in typical startup fashion, everything is a mess; but that's another story. one of the first things i wanted to change was the use of red for everything.
the logo is a deeply saturated red, which is fine, but they used this red for every button, link, and action on their dashboard/web app. it's abrasive and makes everything look like an error or a warning. 
i am trying to transition them to new colors for primary, secondary, and tertiary buttons, actions, and links, but i'm struggling - color isn't my area of expertise (i'd prefer everything be black and white most of the time). we're using the material ui kit, but i also don't love the default colors in their design system. i changed the primary blue to a bit darker because of contrast issues on the white background. 
as i'm building out the design system, i would love to implement a solid color palette that compliments the logo, gives us a unique feel, and will be great for a long time. what advice can you give me on colors across the web app?

i want out of ux. what's next after ux design?
i keep burning out in this profession, but i'm struggling to see a way out. any ideas?

stylized uis or screenshot for product feature pages ?
i am looking at adding pages on my website to show product features. i am wondering what resonates best : screenshot or stylized uis?
the product looks modern and nice so screenshot would look good as well. as the product is not fully mature i may have some screenshots missing.
what are your thoughts? what works best from your experience?

changing career to ux design
i'm 40, live in the uk, currently working as a 3d artist and need to change careers, i have some questions and could do with some advice.
1. what is the best way for me to retrain, i can put in 3 hours a day monday to friday and probs some hours at the weekend. i cant afford to outright quit my job to retrain but i can afford to take some classes/courses.
2. what can i realistically earn as a beginner and how fast can i get up to 45k?
3. how safe is ux design from ai, this is my main reason for leaving my current profession and i don't want to waste my time?
4. is this a skill that's still in demand in the uk, what is the longevity like?
5. am i too old to be getting into this?
thanks

um...anybody else's youtube change? thoughts on engagement?
(desktop) how do you think this improves engagement? it seems they are prioritizing keeping people on youtube with recommended videos taking up a larger portion rather than the community aspect....then again, you do not have to scroll to like/subscribe/comment...idk how i feel. i don't like it right now but it is a new change...
if my img doesn't load here is the [imgur link](https://imgur.com/a/gseitsk).
https://preview.redd.it/vxtjxhi5uktc1.png?width=3456&format=png&auto=webp&s=af6a55efa5920546cb6df564082b2faae0bd47f9

which ux pattern encourages career paths exploration?
i'm currently developing a career exploration tool tailored for high school students, particularly those in generation z. this tool will provide a comprehensive platform for exploring diverse career paths, including assessments for guidance. while considering integrating llm, my primary focus is on seeking inspiration beyond conventional methods.
my goal is to avoid mundane designs and repetitive content. while i've found inspiration from platforms like airbnb and duolingo, i'm eager to explore alternative sources.
the objective is to categorize careers based on career and technical education (cte) clusters outlined by [https://careertech.org/what-we-do/career-clusters/](https://careertech.org/what-we-do/career-clusters/). these clusters, consisting of 12 categories, allow for drilling down into specific career paths, such as medical &gt; diagnostic &gt; mri technologist (3 levels).
i'm intent on deviating from typical dashboard layouts due to the lack of unique content control. project managers have requested a tangible product for testing, hence the need for a distinctive approach to engage students while soliciting feedback.
one unexplored idea involves a game-like character configurator akin to baldur's gate or cyberpunk. users would begin by selecting a "team" (e.g., medical), then zoom in to choose a character based on profession. contextual information would accompany each selection, possibly utilizing face transfer stable diffusion for the user to change its face and seeing him/herself into the tool.   
the ui would predominantly feature characters against isolated backgrounds, akin to contemporary gaming interfaces. i'm open to feedback on the viability of this concept, especially if executed with premium 3d characters, is this silly?
i also considered utilizing a fictional map resembling a disney park layout, but initial attempts sucked - too much complexity
i welcome any fresh perspectives or insights as i continue to explore various development approaches.

what is the term called for this website phenomenon?
sometimes when i am on a page and i have a button or link which will take me to a new tab, i will click create new tab. it will give an error message and open up nothing. so finally i just give in and get rid of the tab which i am currently on(which i want to keep) and it will then open up a brand new tab and keep the old one. this is extremely annoying to deal with since there is no indication that this will happen and just wastes 15 seconds or so. why do websites do this and is there a term for this type of link/button?

doordash ux v/s instacart ux? which one do you prefer and what aspects do you like?
[view poll](https://www.reddit.com/poll/1c020lw)

what makes digital products feel "satisfying" to use?
hey ux designers!   we all know bad design can be a total earworm (looking at you, autoplay ads!), but what about the good stuff?
&#x200b;
sometimes you just click through a website or app and it feels...satisfying. like a perfectly executed button press or a scroll that flows like butter.  but what are the design choices that create this asmr of user experience?
is it the subtle animations?
the use of sound effects?
or maybe the perfect balance of negative space and visual hierarchy?
&#x200b;
share your thoughts and any design examples that make you go "mmm, that's good ux!"

how to move on from a failed interview
for context, in january, i had an interview at a faang company for a design systems internship for this upcoming summer. i prepared a lot, but i felt very stressed interviewing for such a big company and doubting a lot of my design skills. before this interview, i had other big interviews and didn’t get the offer after final rounds, which made me doubt my design capabilities.
i have a design internship for this upcoming summer at a midsize company, but i just can’t stop thinking about that interview, even months later. since then, i’ve been hearing about my friends receiving offers for design internships at bigger companies, and i can’t help but compare. i know i’m lucky to have something and i shouldn't compare myself, but i feel like i just messed up. i’m about to graduate from college, and i feel like i won’t ever get another chance like this again.

nowadays revolution, innovation, and redefine feels like a cheap word.
a few days ago, i was checking out ux case studies by various agencies and individuals.
almost all of them start their case studies claiming that with that project, they have revolutionized or redefined how the industry works with their innovative approach.
then when you look at what they have done, you'll see that there is nothing extraordinary: no new innovative interaction pattern, no new user flow, nothing innovative or revolutionary. 
just a bunch of decent looking mockups that followed a design trend, and animation. 
now i'm not criticizing their work but their claims.
there are revolutionary innovations that has redefined the industry, like for example tiktok with its short content have redefined how video sharing platforms work. nowadays everyone, including youtube, are trying to add short form of content on their platforms.
chatgpt has created a huge impact on technology itself, now everyone is trying to add ai on everything. 
netflix has redefined entertainment industry, people's behavior has changed, they don't want cable anymore, completely abolished dvd renting services, people are less interested to go to theaters, and almost every production house is trying to create their own netflix. 
in ui design, figma has redefined how designers work, and the flat design style has redefined how designers approach ui design. 
these are innovative, revolutionary, and have redefined an industry. 
i think we should stop putting some rectangle and oval shape on a larger rectangle and call it revolutionary product that has redefined the industry. 
not all products are revolutionary and that's okay, i want my chair to be comfortable to sit on, not to revolutionize how we sit on chair.

is this considered a red flag?
it raises a fat red flag to me when younger companies approach to ux design is to basically ignore ux research. i understand that there might be some difficulties due to budgeting but wow.

dashboard table "action" or actions" column name
hey reddit!,
i'm currently assembling a dashboard table component. would it be more appropriate to label the column containing the meatball icon—which, when pressed, unfolds a menu offering between 1 to 5 selectable options—as "actions" or "action"?
thx!
&#x200b;
&#x200b;
&#x200b;

can buttons not be cohesive and look "clean"?
for eg [easycoverletter.com](https://easycoverletter.com)
&#x200b;
https://preview.redd.it/v9tu5hi16btc1.png?width=1452&format=png&auto=webp&s=4eb0eece4ddd7c1387a51ae85b4103f4fbb78281
1. the two buttons together don't look like they're a pair. should the upload resume button be a rectangle too for it to look cohesive? the text in "paste job link here.." feels too light and not calling for attention, but should it?
2. the space feels cluttered already. could there somehow still be a way to insert "try for free. no cc required"?

the ux of ai
there's been a lot of talk in here about ai taking over jobs, or different ai tools that people are using, but what about designing *for* ai? has anyone found any good research or interesting experiments into what's working and what's possible as we start to make tools for this technology? 
for example, a lot of what's out there now falls into the format of, "type stuff into a text box, and get a result." that makes sense for where we are now with this tech, but is that going to be it's ultimate form? it seems to me that a blank text box might be fairly intimidating for someone -- are there interesting affordances that are starting to get put into place to help people craft prompts? is "chatbot" how people are going to *want* to interact with this information?
i realize this is a fairly open ended question, but it feels like a pretty open landscape, as these are brand new interaction patterns. i'm curious what people are seeing in terms of how everyone is starting to experiment with implementing this into products. anyone have examples of someone doing something out of the box? or any early studies on how users are finding the usability of some of these systems?

help with an initial phone interview
hello i have an initial phone call for a product designer position. can anyone tell me what those are usually like. thanks for your help.

redesigning websites/apps
i’ve seen designers show off redesigns of websites and apps which they were not hired to do. i find this interesting especially when the designers show how they solve problems differently or fix glaring bad existing designs. i find these especially prevalent in student portfolios and those being in the profession. 
i have a lot of experience as a ux designer and love to find, critique, and fix bad design. sometimes for companies i’m interviewing with. usually it’s updating an element or single page to address poorly designed elements. 
i’ve seen people in other professions do similar things, not to call out a company or brand, but to highlight their skills and experience. 
what are your thoughts on this in on a social media platform? do you know of anyone running into legal issues due to copyright laws?

moving on after 8 years in an ecommerce startup
hey guys, ive been working at an ecommerce startup for the better part of 8 years, starting off as a graphic designer and gradually leading a department of 6 designers, animators, and ui/ux designers. originally ui/ux was not as valued but in the last 4 years we have really honed down on it.
i'm looking to move on now after a lack of growth and development in my company but i'm not sure if my skills are too diverse to move into a pure product design/ ui/ux design role.
to date i have done ui/ux for website overhauls, created entire brands for the company, animated, video edited, created designs for social media and marketing implement ux research tools and almost everything in between. i'm just not sure if this variety of tasks will limit the jobs i can apply for, as i'd rather go for something more senior to match my years and experience. i'm just wondering what the best course of action is in this situation.

zara london checkout ui is on a literal mirror. visibility/opacity cant be more than 40%
literally squinting, making all sorts of errors trying to use this stupid thing. because of the mirror + display effect it creates a sorr of disconnect between fingers and screen so i keep pressing tbe wrong thing.
how does this get approved!? is this a matter of form over function? 
also wonder how such a big company has failed so many glaring accessibility tests. as someone with 1)perfect eyesight and 2)a career and passion for digital products, cannot easily use this...i wonder what an older, less digitally experienced customer's experience would be

[inspo] the best posts always get missed on social media cause of auto refresh. a simple design like this solves it.
made this on figma using prototyping.

informal interview questions?
hi all,
i am a mid level ux designer and i have an interview coming up for a large financial services company this friday (yay!). 
i am worried as i am unsure how best to prepare for the interview. it is a first round interview and i haven't been given much information other than this: 
'this first call is an informal chat to allow the team to understand more about your design experience. there will be an further interview if successful at this stage.' 
the interview is with two design leads from the area i have applied for the role in. i did not have a recruiter screener call. i applied on the company's website directly and received an email a week or so later inviting me for the interview. 
do you know what types of questions i might expect at this stage? thanks so much in advance. i really want this job and want to do well. thanks.

landing page suggestions
hi! i'm learning ux and trying to beef up my graphic design skills in the process (no formal design background)
i'm designing a site for a small lawn care business and having some trouble with the landing page. i need to use these illustration assets (dog, lawn mower, etc), but i'm having trouble incorporating color. in greyscale i feel like they give a web comic vibe, but when i try adding color they look a little flat? i would love any advice on how i could incorporate color to bring some life to the site. there's no constraints with the color palette, this is just what i'm experimenting with atm. thanks!! i'm open to any suggestions :)
https://preview.redd.it/keprhhqn15tc1.jpg?width=1167&format=pjpg&auto=webp&s=25a9436204fa4244c76644764a13a2bf165fa6f7

gamification strategy for saas/plg
hi guys,
i'm building an ai video generation platform for marketers ([zebracat.ai](http://www.zebracat.ai)) and i'm considering to implement some kind of gamification, where users win video credits, trial subscriptions, discounts etc. when they achieve certain milestones.  
-&gt; what are products which did this really well? where should i seek inspiration?

form level errors: alert or toast?
i’m a dev and can’t decide which makes sense.
form level errors not specific input errors.
examples:
* invalid credentials
* you have exceeded rate limit. please wait x seconds
* error creating your product
i am leaning towards alert component so the errors actually stay on the screen and don’t fly away.
but for mutation operations (create, update/edit, delete) that are successful. a quick toast works.
am i right or wrong?

why am i making a request to a machine?
please explain the wording of this. what factors in the app’s decision? why is there not a “don’t you fucking dare track me” button?

which icon would you use?
hey everyone!
i’m creating a design on a home page on a mobile app where it represents a loyalty program that rewards users for taking certain actions within a certain period of time. for example, to incentive users, they must do x and y within the next 30 days, in order to get z.
(card is maybe around 95px tall. it’s not huge. like a banner. icon would be around 16x16.)
in the design, i’d like to include an icon along with a line of text that says “you have [##] days to complete this goal.” this icon should create a sense of urgency.
what icon would you use? the two that come to mind are:
• a clock icon
• a calendar icon
i’m curious which one you’d pick and why.

how do you conduct user research when your company has no research budget?
i recently worked for a startup as their first and only product designer (contract), which was also my very first design job, and unsurprisingly, it was a very **low ux maturity environment with no allocated research budget or plan**.
the founder/product manager gave me vague responses and seemed to redirect the subject when i showed interest in talking with our users through zoom (who were volunteer drivers for non-profit orgs in different cities) and i struggled to know how to test my designs with anyone other than him, our developer, and my husband - just to get an outside perspective on basic usability. i was only given access to a staged web app for solo testing and studying the existing user flow.
i don't want to be in this position again in the future; i want to involve users and i want to use actual insights to determine where to focus our energy. however, i don't want to use my own money for a subscription for testing tools and was not sure how to target similar users for interviews.
my questions are:
1. what would you have done in this situation?
2. does product testing with *anyone* still give valid insights, regardless of them being outside of the target audience?
3. is this a common situation working for a smaller company, and how do i explain this in interviews?

online courses
hi all, 
i recently did a intro to ui/ux design course from codecademy and i really enjoyed it. i’m considering to start a career in the ux design industry. i did some research online and there were so many course providers that i couldn’t choose one. (i’m based in the uk) 
i was just wondering if anyone here have any recommendations or advice on doing these online courses, is it worth it or should i be doing something else? 
update: i saw a few posts that say design thinking is one of the important things for a strong foundation in ux design, does anyone here know any good courses for that?

whats your opinion on animations in apps?
how much (and what kind of) animations in app is good amount? would love varied opinions on animations in app. 
there's a finance app called cred that i use for payments, and it has horrendous amounts of animations and i am often irritated because of it. lots of dopamine and i'm sure there are people loving it, but i would love an option to disable them (it's considered one of the best-designed apps in the country, which i don't agree)

ux books for hardware?
i am looking for books focused specifically on hardware user experience like consumer electronics.any suggestions would be highly appreciated!

case studies on well-known apps is always encouraged. on the contrary, does this mean case studies on local and poorly made apps won't be taken seriously?
where i'm from, there are some local apps that i've been eyeing and planning to do case studies on, but most of these apps are downright bad, barely updated, and frankly, i doubt anyone uses them anymore.
therefore, any case study on them would be almost like a complete redesign and overhaul of everything (ie *"errors and faults are so easy to find, this won't challenge your skills."*). would they still be significant for my portfolio?

linear, perfect processes x non-linear, chaotic processes in case studies
i was just wondering, specially from hiring managers: do you often feel like perfect projects, following processes linearly, with no shortcomings or detours at all - are they appealing?
i was reading [this article,](https://uxdesign.cc/90-of-designers-are-unhirable-3a8238e3cca2) and it made me wonder if the reason most people are getting rejected is because their projects don't reflect the messy reality from real work environments - like following a formula makes it feel like a student's project, rather than a professional work.
or maybe do you think regardless of whether the process is linear or not, good storytelling and visuals matters more than linearity in portfolios?
i'm not sure what is right or wrong, and would appreciate your inputs. thanks!

things to try if you’re on a job search
hi everyone, i am noticing a lot of posts about people having difficulty landing interviews and getting a job. 
i was laid off in august 2023, and wanted to share the things that i did and tried that helped me land a few jobs. 
the first thing is that if all you’re doing is submitting applications on job posts, you’re not likely to get far. 
here’s what to do: 
1) read the two hour job search book. through this method you’ll be growing your network constantly. aim to have a few calls per week with designers, design managers, or other folks  one to two levels senior in design. 
* don’t skip this step because it tells you how to get in touch with people for free and how to speak with them 
not sponsored, if you find a free pdf online or summary go for it 
2) be the first to respond to any post about a job. this means a user generated post on linkedin. search for “product design” + “hiring” and choose “posts” not “jobs” on the results filter. do this every day, filter by date posted, and message every poster directly. you are much more likely to have your profile or message viewed and be considered when you’re first in the door, versus when you are the 1000th person to apply.
3) find actively hiring managers for your role. search “design” + “manager” or some other position, and use the “actively hiring” filter on linkedin. this way you can message managers directly about positions that may not be publicly shared. i got a job this way. 
4) i just gave you lots of tips on how to find people to message about jobs. what you say is important - don’t just say you’re interested and how many years experience you have. 
your outreach about a job will be dependent on the achievements and skills that you have as an individual. my number one tip is to use hard data points such as:
“hey (person), i saw your post about your team at (company) hiring. i recently did (position) at (company) where i increased (metric) by (percentage) in a span of 3 months. i wonder if there’s a potential fit here - would you be open to chatting with me?” 
and keep it short! about as long as that and the shorter the better. 
this is all just more granular ways to do networking but i found it really helped me. when this gets tiresome, switch over to working on your portfolio and interviewing skills. the work on your portfolio is never truly done.

getting rejected without getting screener calls
i know the job market sucks right now but every application i've sent in has been rejected without getting a screener call. i've gone over my resume over and over again, i'm tailoring it for the jobs i apply to, and i think my portfolio is in good shape. i've only been applying to large companies so maybe this is normal right now. 
i have 3 years experience as a ux designer and i'm applying to roles with that in mind, so it's not like im applying to stuff that i'm not qualified for. have other people been experiencing this where you can't even get to talk to a recruiter? 
i would share my resume and portfolio but want to stay anonymous since i'm still employed. i don't know what i'm doing wrong though to not even get in the door. makes me think something is wrong with me as a designer but i know my stuff isn't garbage. i've been doing visual design professionally for 15 years and ux for 3 of those.

is it a scam? help!
guys, i received a job offer as a ui/ux designer for a company called lacustre (which does not exist on the internet) that is a subsidiary of another company called decode. however, the email that the person asked me to send my response to belongs to a different company that has nothing to do with the first two i mentioned.
i noticed that the contract had many spelling errors, parts in red, a penalty for contract breach, and the way the person approached me for this job was very informal/unprofessional.
i'm suspecting that it might be some kind of scam, what do you think?
p.s.: it's an international vacancy to work abroad.

accessible typeface sizing in a ui. what are you using? and why isn't it 16px?
there's seems to be a pretty big contradiction in the 'rule of thumb' and 'what everyone is actually doing' in regards to font sizes on web uis.
it seems that nearly every article or organization pushing for accessibility (a definite good thing) states that "16px" is the standard minimum size we should be working with.
and yet, nearly every major web site out there seems just fine at 14px or even 12px.
google? 14px. this site here (reddit)? 14px. wikipedia? 14px.
amazon fares a bit better...using 16px in spots...though dipping down to 14px quite a bit for large blocks of text. apple is also a bit all over the place, using 17px in a lot of their marketing pages, but also dipping below 16px in other areas quite a bit. 
i'm pushing for 16px on a redesign of our data-heavy ui which is, admittedly, a huge shift from what the team is used to. and there are some (perhaps valid) arguments that it's 'too big' given the data density we're working with.
i guess i'm not even sure what my question is, as i think i know the answer as to why 16px isn't the norm...it's because most people look at it and go "that looks too big".
but why hasn't the 16px "standard" recommendation by so many accessibility and usability sources been more broadly adopted by us as an industry? too many stubborn art directors?
&#x200b;
&#x200b;

i want to improve my ui and graphic design skills. how can i go about it?
i have been reflecting back at a lot of feedback i received and i realized i could improve on my story telling and ui skills in general and i’m all about putting in the work to get to be at the next level i can grow to. 
problem is this - i’ve been doing it like one would improve at drawing! since i grew up drawing, to get any good at it, i’d look at other drawings and objects and mimic them. the patterns of drawing to the colors, i’d copy them to understand and then the next time i had to something of my own to create, i’d just copy a style or color pattern i remember. 
i’m not sure if this is the right approach to improve my ui and graphic design skills. 
i’d like to hear your thoughts on this and would also like to learn how you guys did it! 
thanks again 🙂

how do i find right problem/problem
as a ux designer i believe finding the right problem is one of the key skills. so designers please help me with your perspectives or your process of approaching anything to find the right problem.
thank you.

double nested pricing table - is there a better option?
https://i.redd.it/ygi7whohntsc1.png

too basic layout?
https://i.redd.it/urbtd43xftsc1.png

getting to apply for ux/ui job roles now. what specific skills or courses are valuable for the current market to stay competitive with others?
i do already have fundamental knowledge in using tools like figma/sketch and solid understanding of ux/ui principles. i’m just looking what’s supplementary for ux/ui designers these days to be on top?

fellow ux designers - what do you think was the thought process behind making itunes movie purchases more difficult?
before the update clicking on the highlighted movie took you directly to the individual movie page and the buy button was viewable before scroll.  now you have to go on a goose chase just to buy a movie - let me give you money apple!!!
my ux friends all think its because of vision pro and apple wanting the purchasing experience to be the same across of their devices.

best platform for pta website
looking to build a website for my parent-teacher association (pta). which no-code platform would you recommend?

my title is ux researcher but all the work i do is ux design.
will this hurt my odds at applying for ux design jobs?

the death of the design process
is anyone experiencing what seems to be the death of the design process? it’s been re-invented many ways by different authorities, but you know typically follows a sort of research, define, discover, design, iterate, build type framework. 
lately, however, i sense a shift in designers renouncing formal processes as inhibiting creativity and divergent thinking by adding guardrails to brainstorming. even in my own team there is a push in the spirit of innovation to generate as many big ideas as possible based on a broad pain point and scale backwards as new things are discovered. 
i consider myself more of a methodical creative and feel having a scientific method to design is what (should) differente ux design from…well…normal design. 
what’s your thoughts? anyone have specific applications where design process frameworks do/do not work?

beginner ux
hi i just caught interest in ux designing about a year ago and decided to enroll for a certification course with brainstation. i’ve already complete the course however, i still feel like i am not yet qualified for a ux job as i barely have my portfolio set up. 
can you please advise how i can further develop my skills or portray that i have beginner ux skills to my potential employer? 
or any advice in general regarding beginner ux would do!

prototyping tool to use other than figma?
i work in a mid-level company, our platform is a web-app so we have lots of screens with lots of layers, with interactive components from our own design system. i noticed that when doing prototypes, figma consumes so much memory even with the file size is small.
i hypothesized it's because we have lots of screens with alot of layers. i managed to try and "fix" it by having turned static components as an image when prototyping, and skip over "smart animate" and any other fancy transitions in our prototype. but for a long term solution, will using a prototype tool be the way for us?
i looked into protopie but it ran slow when exporting our frame, plus it doesnt capture the interactive component properties from the design system. maybe i just need to study it a bit more but so far, i tend to stick to figma because it's compatible to what we want, it's just lagging most of the times and the interactions are limiting (click and hover being incompatible when used at the same time... seriously?)
i'm curious if your design teams use a third-party platform to do prototypes? or if you're sticking to figma, do you know any strategies to make our prototyping process smoother?
&#x200b;

what’s a good answer to the interview question “why should we hire you?”
i am a junior ux designer who’s been at the same job, working for a startup for the past 2.5 years and i have struggled as the sole designer since i have no one else to lean on and bounce ideas and learn from. i have little confidence in myself in interviews, especially when asked this question because my experience isn’t great. what should i respond to this?

ux case study structure feedback
*the problem:* 
recruiters/hiring managers/design directors look at countless amounts of online ux portfolios and only spend, on average, about 30 seconds glancing over them. 
so, as a possible solution, i have created a rough low-fi structure below, but before designing and implementing it i wanted to get feedback. 
from my research i have narrowed down the three use cases who may look at your ux portfolio during the hiring process and what information or content they made be interested in. initially this workflow is adding a sub navigation with specific users such as "recruiter", "hiring manager" and "designer". 
example user flow is as follows:
1. hiring manager goes to first case study page.
2. they see the sub-navigation and select "hiring manager".
3. the page does a subtle scroll animation to skip hero image and high level overview(for the recruiter) and goes directly to design process.
can view the other use cases below. 
interested to hear others feedback if they have tried, or tested, something similar. 
[new ux case study flow](https://preview.redd.it/bso8svgoxnsc1.png?width=6204&format=png&auto=webp&s=aa40946655484f01680bccdf0b45f455d4a6f92b)

other companies: "focus only on cro and growth design" // figma: cursooorrz yolo!!1
https://preview.redd.it/dal7b0lsvnsc1.png?width=620&format=png&auto=webp&s=20298b3214aedc8f0067e9570bfd87735b0973f1

first case study
hi, i started studying ux/ui by myself about 2 months and a half ago. i'm finishing my first case study for my portfolio i created this food delivery app from zero. created the information architecture, user flow, competitive audits, value propositions, uxr plan, and conducted a moderated usability study with the lo-fi prototypes, with sus, nps, and questions i created spreadsheets, then affinity diagrams, which became themes and then insights which i put into a presentation. it helped tons to follow these steps to actually understand my users. i hope that it was reflected in the mockups and hi-fi prototypes that i'm finishing to create right now. 
when is it enough frames for a hi-fi prototype? is it essential to do all the small details like adding specific frames for each type of food? or for example for the different payment methods? 
i tried to put myself into a mindset of "i'm doing this for a real client and real users" but honestly i feel like it's already taking too long. 
if you would like to help me a little more i could send you gifs of my prototypes and you could tell me if it feels and looks good, i could also send you some of the research material that i managed to gather.

calling all remote designers: seeking guidance on transitioning careers
hey everyone,
after six months of hard work, i've finally completed my portfolio and cv as i make the transition from marketing design and brand strategy into the world of ux. i've taken multiple ux courses and have even implemented the full ux/ui process in real-life freelance projects, from research to development.
my dream is to become a digital nomad, travel the world, and connect with people who share similar interests. currently based in latam, i'm actively seeking entry-level remote opportunities in the us or eu.
i'd love to hear from designers who have been in a similar situation, working remotely and overseas. any advice or feedback on my portfolio and cv would be greatly appreciated.
i'm also very open to meeting new people! whether you're an aspiring designer like me or a seasoned professional, let's connect and chat about all things ux and design.
looking forward to hearing from you all!

calling all remote designers: seeking guidance on transitioning careers
https://www.gusyamasakiportfolio.com/

what are some best-designed apps currently?
few years back apps like duolingo, uber, airbnb, stripe, robinhood etc were considered best-designed apps. what do you consider as best-designed app right now? old or new apps.

b2b ecommerce pdp page pricing
hello,
i am working on designing a product detail page for a b2b e-commerce website.   
need some inputs on how to show pricing. for example - 1 item cost is $5. however, the product can be ordered in batch of 200 and this would be default quantity set. i was wondering if subtotal that is $5 \* 200 should be shown in product page only. or should i keep it at cart?

digital designer, i guess?
hello! just had a career chat with a ceo, senior designer person. background: 4 years in audiovisual, now into ux, job hunting post-layoff.
ceo suggested to forget the junior ux title and that i should market myself as a mid-level digital designer, blending skills in branding, web, content design, project management, marketing, and creative conceptualization with ux.
market's flooded with junior ux roles so this might be a good way to get my foot in the door 
what’s your opinion about this?
also, i can’t find much info about digital designers. any tips or resources? 
thanks

is lack of hiring decision making regulated by governments at all?
canada here; i continue seeing several positions i interviewed for, with over 100 candidates, getting rejected, and seeing the position reposted, again with over 100 candidates; i can’t believe there was not a single person, over those hundred candidates, qualified for the job. another example of wasting time and company resources: i was interviewed for a role, made three rounds, and was told no; the week after, i saw the hm in a new role. wtf will you waste anyone and the company's time even interviewing? now, the company is hiring not only again for the role i was interviewed for but also for the hm. this is chaotic

new way of ux combined with the human experience
well ux is flooded….but we’ve actually entered an era where understanding and improving human interactions is more crucial than ever,  and it turns out there's actually powerful tool that remains largely underexploited: the science of human design. 
this approach is built on a framework that can revolutionize how therapists, educators, and virtually anyone interested in the dynamics of human interaction can engage with and understand one another.
it’s called human design.
it’s a a universal language for understanding interaction.
from it’s core, it combines elements from various disciplines to offer a comprehensive view of an individual's nature, capabilities, and how they interact with others. it's a tool that, when properly understood and utilized, can enhance personal relationships, therapeutic practices, and workplace dynamics alike. so for example:
therapists: integrating human design into therapeutic practices can offer deeper insights into clients' behaviors, struggles, and strengths. it can serve as a guide to tailor approaches that resonate more deeply with the individual's inherent nature, potentially transforming therapeutic outcomes.
educators: understanding the principles of human design can enrich educational methods by acknowledging and catering to the diverse learning styles and interpersonal dynamics of students. it's about moving beyond a one-size-fits-all approach to education, recognizing the unique contribution of each student
for errbody: at its core, human design teaches us about the mechanics of being human. learning about your own design, and those of the people around u, can lead to more harmonious relationships, increased self-awareness, and a deeper appreciation for the diversity of human experience. hell yes
we need to disseminate the knowledge of human design far and wide. this isn't about converting skeptics into believers but about providing a new lens through which to view human interaction—a lens grounded in human design aka the science of differentiation.
we live in a world craving genuine connection and understanding. human design offers a path to both, providing a framework for appreciating the complexities and beauty of human interaction. and by educating a broad audience about this framework, we can contribute to a more empathetic, understanding, and interconnected society. thank you very much.
and the application of human design principles in enhancing human interactions is just beginning. it requires educators, therapists, and pioneers to lead the charge, armed with the conviction that understanding our inherent design can lead to a more compassionate world.
we’re not just talking about a new approach we’re talking about empowering individuals across various fields with the knowledge to transform how we connect, communicate, and understand one another on a fundamental level. through education and open dialogue, the profound insights of human design can enrich our collective experience, making the world a more interconnected and harmonious place.
if you don’t believe it then why don’t you look up your own chart at mybodygraph.com 
wondering wtf am i looking at? go to chat gpt and type in your type, profile, authority, channels and incarnation cross to get started. i’m telling you. it’s an enlightening start.

first real app - want advice
hi all,
i hope you’re doing well! i’m working on my first app called jetbuddy, an app designed to help flyers quickly adjust to new timezones. i’m nearing a 1.0 release in terms of features, but still feel my app is relatively boring/uninteresting. i am wondering whether anyone would be willing to give some pointers on what i can improve on to make it more appealing/interesting to users. any feedback is much appreciated!

need feedback on first hi-fi prototype
this is my first and only project after doing the google course. i don't really know what else i'm missing but i think having some professional eyes would be super helpful. this is a fictional project designed to help users order food and beverages to their theater seat. 
[https://www.figma.com/proto/3ksyvkhfkfyayrqr8gmwhx/cinapop?page-id=203%3a275&type=design&node-id=203-287&viewport=385%2c746%2c0.52&t=td5udzdivltr8hlq-1&scaling=min-zoom&starting-point-node-id=203%3a287&mode=design](https://www.figma.com/proto/3ksyvkhfkfyayrqr8gmwhx/cinapop?page-id=203%3a275&type=design&node-id=203-287&viewport=385%2c746%2c0.52&t=td5udzdivltr8hlq-1&scaling=min-zoom&starting-point-node-id=203%3a287&mode=design)

stroke v. outline in illustrations
i feel like this has been an issue for the past seven years of my career and no one seems to know the answer. sometimes i need to download vector icons or illustrations from online. often i need to edit them so they appear to be in the same style or set, even if they aren't. sometimes these end up being outline vectors and sometimes stroke based. the line weight on the outline vectors can't be edited easily or at all. so when i resize, i'm at the mercy of whatever the creator made. stroke based vectors, i can easily go change the line weight and it stays consistent regardless of the size. i cannot figure out how to filter vectors in these foundries by stoke or outline, how to work around this issue, can't figure out a hack. it drives me nuts. of note, i work in figma. also, i've tried plugins, but they don't seem to work. tia.

how does the invite feature on apps work?
hello, i'm a learning app designer, and i'm currently working on an app that includes a specific onboarding feature. in this feature, users need to successfully onboard three accounts to the app before their own account gets activated. i'm curious about how the backend of this process works and how it communicates and updates the system when an invited account becomes activated. it seems essential to understand these technical aspects before designing the related screens.

what sets top performers apart?
i’m currently a senior product designer at a series a b2b saas startup in london, uk. i’m considering joining a faang company in a few years. how can i position myself for such a move? also is there anything skill-wise that separates these designers apart from designers working at smaller companies like the one i work at? thanks in advance.

lead designer not doing anything
hi ux fam! our new lead designer started about 3 weeks ago and he is doing absolutely nothing except talking to us. i’m a junior designer and our manager said the lead is supposed to be helping us “boots on the ground”, yet all he does is provide feedback and talk a good talk, yet when assigned parts of the experience he doesn’t deliver, and never replies to our comments on figma when we what his opinion. is late to meetings, shows up when he wants too and so on. my question is, is that the expectation of that role? or, is he just grifting the company for a paycheck?

positive career posts?
has anyone had any positivity happen in the ux field recently? i’d love to see some encouragement instead of the doom and gloom anxiety of product design jobs on this sub. saw a post like this not too long ago wanting to see positivity so let’s bring this back.
please post your wins! did you finally land a job after leaving another one? were you feeling hopeless about being in this field and now you can see the light? did you leave a toxic workplace? anything helps!

any ideas for my image upload screen?
hello, i am currently working on a webapp and am having trouble with this offcanvas which opens, when a user drops or paste's a image onto the canvas. the styling is work in progess, so please ignore the not readable text, buttons and all of that. besides changing the image name and adding a description, the user can add tags to the image, making it easier to find later. same for the boxes which are just like folders. what bothers me the most is the selectbox of the tags. i think its inner parts are not too bad but it just needs a lot of space to work well and i think that the offcanvas has just too much going on when this kinda complex select is opened. i have full control over the code and appreciate any help or ideas.
https://preview.redd.it/2yhhhmhaijsc1.png?width=589&format=png&auto=webp&s=dc34145fd1d943286dee7415caefbacdd9aa333c
https://preview.redd.it/3ln0pk2bijsc1.png?width=288&format=png&auto=webp&s=c03ee695953066e1ae9d950c780a0efa30631100

suggestions on auditing a fragmented design system?
i work in a large org and we have a large, fragmented design system with many products. we have our main design system, then many that have organically grown. it’s a mess, but that’s not my problem to solve. i need to run an audit for design leadership on why we can’t use a sub-design system as-is for our product after a re-org. i need to explain gaps, then we can put a plan together to consolidate our product with our new orgs design system.
then end result will be an audit of what doesn’t work, and at least a start on principles for our products system. after the audit i will start contributing to the design system to ensure it works for my product and user needs. the focus of this audit is on design patterns and existing components, not what is in code (yet). i'll focus on what is in figma and in production.
any resources you can share, or tips if you’ve done something similar yourself? i'm collecting  examples in figjam and documenting, but examples of frameworks and how others have done it is always helpful.

atomic design: do you actually use the terms “atoms”, “molecules”, “organisms”, etc. in your design files?
hey, i’m working with another ux designer and we’re transitioning to figma. they are keen on embracing atomic design as a principle going forward, which i’m totally on board with. 
one thing i’m struggling with a bit is that they would like to name our component groups according to the atomic design stages, literally calling components things like “atom / button”. in my mind it makes more sense to group components based on their functional purpose, which would (imo) make it easier to find the component you’re looking for. 
i.e. if i want an accordion, my first thought is not “an accordion is an organism!” 
another issue is that we are doing the best we can with an existing application that didn’t have a design system or standards. so, they are trying to inventory and categorize all of the existing designs, resulting in numerous components with lots of variants and tons of instance swapping. i think it will become overwhelming soon, and imo, finding all the “atoms” and “molecules” in something that already exists is vastly different from creating a new design system that is modular and scalable. 
i’m wanting other designers’ thoughts on whether this is a standard practice and makes sense.

multi-select dropdowns - best practices
what are some best practices for multi-select dropdowns?
**questions:**
1. **long list of selected in input** \- show all or use max height?
2. **filtering list**  \- allow filter by keyword in input, or separate "search" in menu?
3. **order selected chips in input** \- first to last selected, or alphanumeric?
i've already considered these popular articles, so assume i need a dropdown:
[medium - improving usability of multi-select...](https://medium.com/tripaneer-techblog/improving-the-usability-of-multi-selecting-from-a-long-list-63e1a67aab35)
[nng - list box v dropdown](https://www.nngroup.com/articles/listbox-dropdown/)
https://preview.redd.it/61b8go2idhsc1.png?width=1172&format=png&auto=webp&s=e154eef34f9d6b46c32e37a1d5b9c95ffe78a529

how to stand out
curious about the most sought-after skills in ux designer applicants? what's the common gap and what can someone do to truly stand out from the crowd in this competitive field?

how to add alt text to icons and images while designing in figma?
i'm a newbie in ui/ux field. i'm currently doing a passion project to add to my portfolio. i want to add alt text to my icons and images for better accessibility. but how do i do it in my design? 
can someone help me with this?

what do you think about forcing account creation before letting users view content?
what are some arguments for and against this? what's good in which scenario? 
https://preview.redd.it/kek9xk4u8fsc1.png?width=1582&format=png&auto=webp&s=36259928da46225b65394fbec63b54808d165041

what are some success stories from when you used ai in your design process?
i have never used gpt, midjounery, or even figma or framer ai features. convince me to use them or to continue staying the same 
https://preview.redd.it/x6zbmrmn7fsc1.png?width=764&format=png&auto=webp&s=3916345c4276b87586e74e8c2fdfa946eadd6f79

need help making a decision…
i’m in the uk and i’ve been offered to study graphic design at a prestigious russell group university. i’ve also been offered a place to study user experience design at a less prestigious, non-russell group university. i want to be a ux designer and i’m not sure whether studying the graphic design course would help me build the skills necessary to be a ux designer. can you get a ux design job with a graphic design degree? 
i think i would prefer the user experience design course - it looks more suited to me - but it would look really good on my cv if i went to a top university and potentially get me hired over someone else. 
i only have a few days to decide and i’m really stuck. what would you pick?

past work screen product designer interview @ meta advice?
hey everyone, i wanted to ask if anyone has gone through the entire product designer interview process @ meta & how that looks like + what to expect/prepare. 
i was told that there is first a phone screening, then a past work screening, and later 3-5 more interviews to complete past those two including an app critique & a problem solving interview.
i was curious though, if you have interviewed at meta for pd before, what did you prepare for the past work screen and was it just a portfolio presentation? i want to be as prepared as possible for the future!
thanks :)

what exactly is a ux “wizard”?
might sound stupid but i’ve seen several position with the job title ux wizard or ux wizz? am i understanding the word wizard wrong?
are they looking for a magical unicorn? whenever i see the word wizard i’m thinking about the old “installation wizard” from like windows xp or something.

what level should i be applying for?
looking at the sub, it seems like the general rule of thumb for leveling oneself is to go based on a mix of personal perception of experience level + title you want + title you have. however, as an upcoming new grad, i'm torn between wanting a higher level and getting as many mentorship opportunities as possible while i can still leverage my student/new grad title.  
i've been working as an associate designer at the company i interned for previously. my contract ends in the middle of summer, and i have my last year of college left after that.
at the moment, i'm not sure if i should be recruiting for another internship since i'm a student with only one company\* on my resume, or if i should recruit for ft since i'm placed at the associate level.
i do want to recruit for new grad roles since i'll be a new grad and i really want that type of early career mentorship, but on the other hand, i'm not sure if i can go from associate -&gt; associate. i also don't know if one company is enough; i don't know if i have diversity in experience within the industry (which leads me to want to apply for fall/spring internships also).
another thought is to change my resume for every job, but idk how i'd frame it on linkedin + other public profiles since they're cross-checked now.
is one easier to orient myself towards than the other in this current job climate? should i apply to l2 roles because it's one step higher than my leveling, or should i retitle my associate role to an internship so i can access internships + new grad roles as a student?
(adjacent question: \*does amount of companies on your resume matter when applying, or just quality of portfolio?)

dark palette e-commerce sites
aside from personal taste, does anyone have any takes on dark colored e-commerce sites? 
just my observation but, it seems like i've seen more light/white e-commerce websites. i didn't know if there was any science behind it. i'd love to get your insight. thanks!

confused about university and program choose
i've received offers for a master's program in psychology from uppsala university and a master's program in user design from kingston university. however, i'm struggling to decide whether i should pursue a ph.d. in psychology or enter the workforce directly.  i am so tired of the research and there is less paid back if i continue the psychology pathway. so, i really wan tot have the ux design programm for career. however, as an international student, there is many barrier for me: language, visa or even the local career market relationships. what if i didnt get the job and i paid lot in expensive tuition fee.

when do you think things will get better?
i have been laid off in february. applying for jobs like a maniac but the market is dry, not so many jobs as a couple of years ago, too many applicants.
to give you a context, my last job i got it in 4 weeks (2.5 years ago). i had 7 interviews, approached by 10 recruiters. i went to stage 2 for recruitment on 4 companies (one my last employer). i applied around 20 -  30 jobs if i remember well. 
8 weeks so far, i have applied to 80 jobs. i had 4 interviews, approached for jobs by 5 recruiters. i have only been on stage 2 for recruitment once, and i was told yesterday i wasn't selected. and that was the last draw for me.
for context, i am in australia (i know things are way worse in the us). 
i feel seriously depressed and unsure of what to do. do you think the industry will get better? one of the recruiters told me there has been a lot of layoffs in the last 12 months.i would like to hear from people who got laid off and managed to step on their feet again during this time. i need to have hope. because i feel hopeless.

ux / ui ——— vs ——— ui / ux
there can be only one! 
[view poll](https://www.reddit.com/poll/1bv7dom)

ux psychology & cognitive bias reference cards - 106 figma component resource cards for learning, reference, and helping others understand your thinking. figma link in the comments.
https://www.figma.com/community/file/1356675724005915154/growth-design-psychology-rules-and-biases

is research a big part of your work?
im a developer. i am currently getting more and more into complete greenfield freelance work directly for clients, who can be completely non technical.
i worked with and without designers on work projects.
i need to implement something that is essentially a quiz app, so i looked up some quiz apps to see how they're designed.
it made me think, is this what you do? if i were to go to a real ui/ux designer, is a solid part of their work just research?
or do you just kinda know what needs to be on a screen? but how could you know literally everything, so research and inspiration must be a big part of just "normal" design workflow?
i have no problem iterating on designs. at that point its kind of easy. you just notice "oh you cant actually go back to a question, this feels off" and fix it.
but starting at 0 i always feel kinda anxious.
on the other side, just looking up quiz apps wasn't exactly difficult. it was a ridiculous experience of 2004 web designs combined with more ads than ive seen in the last 5 years combined and the most scammy cookie acceptance banners uve ever seen lmao.
would you say spending an hour or two looking at random online quizzes was normal?

boot camp? upcoming ux/ui designer and i really need help!
hi everyone! i’m looking to break into ux design after gaining a bachelor’s degree in general business, and i currently have a marketing job. i’ve been looking into boot camps to learn more about what ux design entails, and i’m having trouble understanding exactly what my options are. the one through cornell university seems like a good option, and it would give me an ivy league certificate, plus it’s significantly cheaper than berkeley or columbia university. however, there’s also one from springboard (i haven’t heard of it before) that guarantees a job after finishing the program but that one is a lot more expensive than the cornell one and also doesn’t offer that prestigious ivy league stamp. do hiring managers care about where you got the certificate from, or just that you got it? what would you guys suggest, as professionals already in the field? i definitely want to do a boot camp because i’m not knowledgeable on the processes or software at this time, and i’d do a lot better with structured instruction rather than teaching myself. please help!

best sources for inspiration?
what are your go-to sources for inspiration for your next project? dribbble and behance are okay, but i feel like they're full of ui projects without much thought to the actual functionality of the product. are there particular designers or websites you go to for inspiration? are there any solid groups on facebook/reddit/linkedin/etc to view high quality projects?

button height after input text
hello, everyone.  
last week i heard some of my coworkers complain about the buttons height, because they were not matching the input text height when they were put side to side (example bellow). he didn't gave any evidence of best practices on this matter, so i tought it was weird to bring that up, but couldn't argue back because i didn't know what is best in terms of ui and experience. in my opinion, if you have enough variants to deliver good hierarchy and visual balance and keep it consistent, it should be enough.  
https://preview.redd.it/izdg4brv1asc1.png?width=824&format=png&auto=webp&s=90dd1c4d7db72767c0673dc153a3296c46c60410
what is y'all opinion on the matter? i looked for evidences on websites but didn't came across any.

no annual increment in salary even after slogging.
hey guys, i work in europe as a ux designer for a fast growing company. i honestly slogged my ass off last 1 year to get a promotion, and i recently found out that not only i am not getting a promotion, my salary is also not increasing. 
let me tell you, i had made my intention to get a promotion 2 years ago. i worked hard and took projects accordingly.
best part? i have done well, that’s what was written in my report. and when asked about why no annual increment? reply was because you are earning a lot!
not sure how many of you are facing this. if you have, i feel sorry for you. 
if you are a rockstar in your company who has fetched many promotions. please share some tips. thanks!

case study feedback
hello,   
as a junior ux/ui designer i am kinda lost on what a good case study is or isn't.   
i tried to keep them simple, clean and straight to the point but now i'm wondering: how simple is enough simple?    
i'm worried i might be missing out on some crucial details about my project deliverables.  
can you please provide me with some feedback so i can know if i am headed in the right direction or not.  
thank you in advance!  
[https://www.behance.net/gallery/188710501/the-pareto-principle-in-design-case-study](https://www.behance.net/gallery/188710501/the-pareto-principle-in-design-case-study)
&#x200b;

please help me decide
looking for some guidance on what to do next to land a decent ux, interaction design, or digital product design role:
[view poll](https://www.reddit.com/poll/1buq1hn)

customer ci doesn't fulfill accessibility criteria
hi everyone, 
how do you deal with customer colors if they don't fulfill the accessibility criteria. for example yellow buttons with white text, or yellow text buttons, yellow headers. i have various projects, some are multitenancy, meaning we just adapt existing design to a different theme. some customers and my own company have horrible primary and even secondary colors. i have no say in it, since it's the company's ci done before my time. my favorite is the yellow tone on an off white background or light grey text, which even i am struggling to read sometimes. i have been complaining about it for years, but it's the company's color scheme. what would you do?

data visualization in cybersecurity
https://www.radware.com/blog/public-cloud-protection/2024/03/the-significant-role-of-data-visualization-in-cybersecurity/

this is latest i have gotten from uxfol.io
https://i.redd.it/f581mvr775sc1.png

is this how design is?
i have been, what i now understand a designer to be for just about my entire life. i have been taking things apart and putting them back together, at 12 i was taking doodles of gadgets, inventions and reverse-engineers of things i saw on tv to my teachers for feedback, i have always been talking to people, even as a child, understanding their problems and going home to dream up solutions. i never really had the wherewithal or ability to **make** any of these things - nevertheless...
at 30, i decided to make the pivot to product design after a professional lifetime of technical work and engineering. i decided i was tired of being pigeonholed into a corner and told to just "make this" or "we have a problem with x, validate a solution and write up a protocol" or whatever. i decided i wanted to get back to my creative childhood passion, even if it came with a pay cut; i wanted to work with people and collaborate and move fast and break things and learn and perform direct research about *how* the product i was making was supposed to actually *serve* that user/human.
it's been a few years and i've noticed some things and i wanted to get a sense if i was just confused by my own confined perspective or if others share the same feelings.
1. i feel very isolated in my work. whether i am employed as a staff designer, a contractor or working freelance, especially since the prevalence of remote work became so dominant, i feel very alone. i basically sit at home, hopping from zoom to zoom, listening to music and working mostly by myself. there isn't really a ton of collaboration, especially on smaller teams unless it is for critiques or what i have come to call "spot checks" where some designer just hops into my figma to see what i am up to and how things are going - not a ton of brainstorming sessions or collective research review or prototyping and analysis.
2. there is a massive, rather unspoken, pressure for perfection which is something i surprisingly feel more now than i did in engineering. at least, when looking for a job, there is this weight of needing to already be this perfect designer with this perfect style and perspective. i must say, it is **very** understandable, with all of the money on the line, that this would be the case. i really hope i am not phrasing this wrong, so i will try in another way too. i suppose what i mean to say is that i had expected much more collaborative work where solutions are always rough and operating off of research and data. where failure during prototyping was expected and that the point was to see prototyping really as an extension of research rather than a pass/fail value judgement. the idea of a solution being "pedestrian" or "simplistic" or what-have-you has been lost on me for a while due to my fast and loose, invention focused, engineering background.
3. the professional grind can be rough, in a way. it seems that a lot of professional time is going to be spent freelancing, hopping from project to project as companies willing to invest in perennial product r&d efforts seem to be relatively few and far between. far from finding financial and professional stability, where one can grow with and invest in a particular team and product space/concept. it seems that employment is at the whims of the innovative desires of executive leadership. one can be hired for a year or so until the company decides its product line is fine as-is and initiate product department lay offs. more often, roles come in as short contracts or just freelance work.
4. *"i wanted to work with people and collaborate and move fast and break things and learn and perform direct research about how the product i was making was supposed to actually serve that user/human."* it feels as though there is very little of this within the pragmatic reality of the professional world. the reality has been presented as an isolated experience not as dependent upon uxr or data and that project timelines don't really allow for full-scale "double diamond" brainstorming, collaboration, prototyping, redesigning, etc. it seems more like a designer will receive an order from on-high and be expected to, more-or-less, design a final solution from that alone - any research done would probably just be from myself and what i can find online either in articles or competitor analysis.
this is not to trash design as a profession or a practice. and, again, i am relatively new with only a few years of *proper* experience. so i am curious if everyone thinks these observations are the result of bad personal experience or if these things are something i should come to expect going forward.
also, i may update the comments if other questions come to mind. being in my 30s, i feel i have to make some pretty hard and serious professional decisions and i may not have covered all of my concerns here.
what does everyone think?

custom input field
imagine a custom entry field that a user can type in what ever they like to identify an item recorded in a database at a later date and time, …but this descriptive input has the option to include more then 1 identitifer numbers that are generated as optional additional extra by the system. 
the numbers are generated and sit along side the description so they can't be edited.
any good examples of this? 
i don't want to make up some frankenstein input field.
i'm sure i've seen examples of this but just not sure where or what the pattern is called.

if apple added a 'nearby bar' - made with figma (entry-designer)
https://www.reddit.com/gallery/1bu9xhw

figma file example
hello all.
i was wondering if any of you were asked for figma file when looking for ux design jobs? i thought it was more for ui designers to have. like they want to see how to organize the file. i know every place do them differently, but is there like a good place where i can learn about the best practice? i'm trying to put together a figma file as part of my portfolio i'm working on. none of the place i've worked at had a well organized file so i would want to see what is the industry standard/acceptable file.

will online ms in hci or ux be the new bootcamp?
hi uxdesign community.
post is basically the title. i'm an unfortunate bootcamp grad trying to break into ux. i thought i was slick enrolling in a career-turnaround bootcamp certificate, not knowing millions of other people would have the same idea.  
with the economy the way it is, i likely won't be able to get a secure job, so i was considering an online ms in hci. i'm a bit paranoid a large portion of bootcamp grads are also in the same boat and would come to the same conclusion. i don't want to make the same mistake twice, and waste thousands of dollars just to be part of another trend that oversaturates the market.
how valuable is a ms in hci vs an online ms in hci?
any advice helps!
thanks :)

tips for designing application that just has lot of forms.
i will be designing an internal tool for my firm and the application is basically should have  multiple forms and a dashboard that would be use by clerical staff. i have no time and budget to do user research. all i have is a word document that has functional requirement and a ppt that has the workflow made by stakeholders (non-designers). 
so if you were in a similar situation how would you approach this?

how to support front-end devs using react/material ui?
what is your strategy? i have some design elements already created and just learned that devs will be using the material ui kit for react. how would you go about combining the new and existing components? keep the components and add them to the mui library or edit the mui components?

differentiating button types = important? overthinking? common terms?
i'm presently working on cleaning up an application that has what i'd call 'random jelly bean' approach to using buttons. it's a mess. i'm trying to reduce the number and types of buttons and distill them down as best i can. 
at the moment, i've figured out that i probably have two 'buckets' of button types but am struggling to properly define/name them. 
bucket 1: standard? data interaction? user confirmation? (basically your regular form buttons:
`save | cancel | etc`
bucket 2: utilities? functions? (tools like edit, view, expand, settings)
`new | edit | setings | etc.`
but i also feel i may be overthinking this. how important is it that i differentiate between these visually? maybe it's not? 
my thinking so far is
bucket 1 = buttons involving choices (do this or that) or buttons that affect data (save, delete). 
bucket 2 = buttons i use to access tools
but i can't seem to find much written about this idea of having 'tiers' of button types so now i'm thinking i might be overthinking all of this. 
&#x200b;

ux from online bootcamp
hello, i was hoping to get a feel for the job market and what the current realities are in the field from those that have also gone through this route.
i have a background in advertising technology and am wrapping up my ux bootcamp course. a coworker friend who left in 2022 to branch off into ux had told me it is the worst time for a fresh learner like myself to break into the field.
would i have a chance at internships, or do companies strictly look at recent grads or near-grads to fill those rolls?

adding "none of the above" option in checkbox menu
hello fellow designers,  
with questions like "did you have any of these costs" (or similar) - would you add a "none" checkbox instead of just enabling the "continue" button without the need of having anything selected?  
on the one hand more options mean the screen is more cluttered - on the other hand we should always enable users to take multiple routes to their goal.  
in some of my usability tests users seem to look for the "none of the above" option.
https://preview.redd.it/pusi1q2ql1sc1.png?width=860&format=png&auto=webp&s=5f251c48127226122ec97203c8470dbafaa36452

defining requirements (back to basics)
ok, so i'm wondering how we do this and if some better models could be used.  
often i go into a job and it has already been decided what it is we are working on. but i wonder to myself how it could be done better.  
is there a well-known process for going from the idea (and i don't mean ideation), to defined scope, design (mapping out and testing) and then implement?  
i'm in a somewhat "back to basics" mood with this sort of question.

should i get my ux/ui certification to get a job in 2024?
hi! :) i'm currently working on getting my ux/ui design certification from google and came across an article that states ux/ui jobs are nearly non-existent and that the competition is very high to land a job as an entry level designer. there are also concerns about ai replacing these positions. i just wanted some advice form real people whether to pursue this certification or not in 2024 in hopes of getting an entry level ux designer job this summer.

question for designers and devs
why do contemporary applications hide scroll bars in desktop layouts? used to dislike them for cluttering the designe, especially when multiple scroll bars used but now i'm rethinking. after user feedback and articles, it seems hiding them might not be the best move. what's your take on this trend?

what is the best way to show how many employees checked in for the day on a dashboard?
i have a requirement that the client wants to track which employees have checked and what time they have checked in for the week.
they want something on a dashboard and something that is not a datagrid. 
i have absolutely no idea on how to achieve anything that is not a datagrid.  is there some example to track things like this in a user friendly design?

design ideas for prompting users to complete tasks
i'm building an app that needs users to complete a few tasks everyweek.
the current task list works well with the power users but the laggard users are not completing their tasks.
i'm looking for some inspiration and ideas that'll make the user want to click on the tasks and get them completed.
one of the ideas i have is by showing something as simple as a red dot on the tasks. but i would like to get a few inspirations

masters in hci / ux or specialist diploma in niche areas?
hi everyone. i’m planning to upgrade this year to stay competitive but i’m not sure what i should be learn. as a hiring manager, which one would you prefer?
- masters in hci / ux
- specialist diploma in data analytics/ data visualisations
- specialist dip in front end development work
thank you so much!

have any of you started broadening your ux roles to incorporate more cx design?
background: worked in product design for the last 9+ years at tech companies of large and small sizes  
while 'solving for the customer' is the consistent motto from role to role, the user experience as they transition from product to product, between different customer stages (example. from free trial to onboarding etc) or from physical to digital interactions (for example, customer service calls etc), are rarely, if ever, thought about and/or designed. 
why do you think this is? 
i find this realm of design fascinating because if done well, you can truly make someone a customer for life. it's magic. additionally, as ai gets better and more ingrained in businesses, i really believe a real differentiating factor between competitors is going to be their branding/story and how they create this overall customer experience.

would you ever consider transferring to 3d/spatial ux design?
https://i.redd.it/dzrbrtp9qxrc1.png

finished boot camp, now what?
i have just finished a ux ui designer boot camp and not having any luck with jobs. i was thinking of doing some courses for ux to help me land a job. can you recommend any? thanks

how to get more credibility
i’ll keep it short 
- bachelors in business (good uni)
- 3 ui/ux internships (finishing 3rd one soon)
- only full time offer for biz position
have been actively applying to ui/ux jobs, networking, and getting resume and portfolio review for months 
how can i place myself better to secure a job in this field? should i do credentials like bootcamps/certifications online? 
can’t apply to masters right now (visa/$$)
internship companies are on hiring freeze so contract extension at best
thank you so much for your help 🥹👍

need help to complet thi assigment
design a webapp for a preventive maintenance company to manage and maintain different machines.  ref video: [**https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0m1q8qkxdwe&list=plcdniblo4qmkhavtmk216b4syon7qvx1w**](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0m1q8qkxdwe&list=plcdniblo4qmkhavtmk216b4syon7qvx1w)  following are the software features: 1. role based access 2. create department, machines and user master 3. create maintenance forms for different department 4. assign tasks to users to complete the activity 5. approval process post submission of the filled form 6. analytics and reports  try to find and solve the user's pain points while keeping the user interface clean & attractive. your are supposed to design the pages with a width of 1920 pixels for desktops. don't spend more than a day to finish the requirement.  you are required to submit the following: figma design file link. a screen recording of the app flow.  design color code: red- #fa2609, black- #000000, white- #ffffff

turning old websites if they were modernized - made with figma (entry-designer)
https://www.reddit.com/gallery/1btc03h

interview advice
hello! i have an interview for an internship coming up, and i really want to do well in it. i have had quite a few interviews during this semester already, but i either got rejected or ghosted, so i could definitely improve in that aspect. i would appreciate some advice so that i can prepare for it as best as i can!

advice for understanding this field + getting one's foot in the door
hi everyone! not sure if this is the right place to ask, but i'm seeking some advice. i'm currently finishing up a psychology undergraduate degree and want to be working as a ux or interaction designer. i'd be open to exploring vr, ai, ar, 3d, wearables, and even traditional app experience design. i realise this is pivoting to a new field, and even though i've been trying to learn through youtube, free courses, and doing my own projects- i really want to study this field, with the infrastructure to explore my ideas. so i was thinking about doing a master in professional studies program at nyu tisch or a program like copenhagen institute of interaction design for a year. my goal is to be able to find work after (i'd be an international student in both cases) and i'd really like to work within interaction design with a company that is willing to sponsor me. would you have any insights into either programs, tips, or advice? i did not have anywhere else to turn to so any help would be much appreciated!

great ux ...
https://www.reddit.com/gallery/1bt50t0

is there a way out of annoying dark patterns?
i purchased a kindle and joined amazon's prime plan.
i hit the "subscribe" button on substack to see plans just to discover this action opted me in.
i didn't sign for this. are we captivated, or is there a cure?

reddit ux: what's happening with it?!
i looked up and i know i'm not the only one despising it.
i mean, we know ux and usability weren't the brightest spot for reddit (and specially for moderators), much of the last year drama about 3rd apps relied on that.
but now it looks like they started meddling with the ui and the interaction by adding things and steps that didn't exist before? i mean, why can't i read a post and go back do my homepage anymore? why i'm force to visit the subreddit? why making it harder to look a picture? why worsen the comment thread view/ interaction?
did someone ask for these changes? i actually welcomed the colorful tint for the subs, but the rest of it...

the truth is, companies don’t actually want ux/product designers.
they say they do because they want to put on a good show. the people in charge will say that they tried to solve problems for users. every company will publicly pay lip service to society and promise the public that they’re doing everything they can to make their products and services better, faster, more effective and efficient, but it’s all lies. 
corporations and companies lie all the time. boeing, comcast, electronic arts, fox and nestle are just a few. they’ll do everything they can to steal your money and back out on their commitments. they say they want to give their customers the best experience, but they care more about pleasing their own superiors. if you’re a ux designer that works for a company, think about all the times you’ve been ordered to do exactly as the product owner says. would they have you replaced if you didn’t? 
as a ux designer, i am a professional pawn. i’m the one that gets caught in the crossfire and sacrificed for the greater good of the team. the real power players on the board say they want to hear our strategies, but they couldn’t care less. they don’t want someone in their way, telling them they’re wrong, upsetting their apple cart. they don’t want to hear honest feedback from users, which may go against their playbook. all they want is for us to shut our mouths and make the product look pretty, like good little robots.
this is why they don’t want us. this is why we’re having trouble finding work.

side nav vs top nav? what are your thoughts? any recruiters on here have thoughts?
i used to hate side navigation, but the more i look at portfolios, the more attractive they become. some are very clean and well-organized. i know recruiters have 3 seconds to decide if they want to move on from the homepage. so, what's the verdict? side nav or top nav?
edit: for someone's portfolio website

is there a cheatsheet of conventions for pixel amounts when using h1, h2, h3s and the distance/padding between elements?
i do everything based on feeling, but are there proven numbers that follow correct ux principles?

pro/cons of landing pages
i am building my own instructional design/ e-learning website in wix studio because zero budget to hire a pro. the audience would be a hiring manager/ senior id looking at the site after i have applied for a job posting. this requires instant attention because they will move on fast. my portfolio write up is not this so i need a hook to get them there. 
apologies in advance if i make mistakes on the specific terminology,  i am an amateur who knows this is not my strength but i am always trying to learn.
can anyone speak to the implications of designing my website with an initial landing page without multiple screens of info scrolling down?
i want to embed  a 1-2min short title/intro demo reel that i am currently making in after effects that is multi device responsive. the end leads  to a clear cta to learn more about my case studies (portfolio). cta (not sure if it would still be called that)  is also always available in the  header to skip the reel and go directly to the portfolio.  
the rest of the pages won’t be single screen- the   portfolio page will be a scroll down with a mix of video text, images and infographics. 
bonus question: i heard a lot of ux/ui designers hate on side menus but i thought it might be helpful for portfolio sections to navigate descriptions sections of projects. is the hate well founded? what are better solutions?

many form fields but few displayed info
right now, the edit form displays all the fields of an item. the view mode of the item only displays the info that was filled in.
https://preview.redd.it/ysm7olyp7drc1.png?width=2155&format=png&auto=webp&s=b8607ef8f55e11a31e54062b7e8d0d066a76affc
this creates a very empty view mode if not many items were filled in (as you can see up there). when all this is in a modal, i can somehow solve the issue by shrinking the modal. but when the form and info is in a page (e.g. profile page), i can't shrink the container.
any advice?

how to do this in figma? see image 👇
hi fam,
trying to make a version of this in figma, as close as possible. what combination and order of shape effects (eg. transparency, background blur, etc) will help me achieve this (see image)

“responsive” design in figma? what do you deliver to the devs?
i’ve been a designer for about 5 years now and i’ve never faced this issue before. i normally deliver designs for 3 breakpoints: desktop, tablet and phone. 
in my current company, for designing their website, the dev team said they needed the designs in more screen sizes. i was more than happy to deliver. so far i’ve done 6 or 7 screen widths. everything is in auto layout. it’s a simple static website. 
now they have come back saying the designs are not responsive and they are having trouble developing it. one of the hero sections had a full width image as a background, and they made me change the design because they said they weren’t able to scale the image for different screen sizes. 
i’ve never faced this issue before. all dev teams before picked up seamlessly from the screen sizes i’ve delivered. i normally do a pretty rigorous design qa, and they have all fared well. i’m not sure if i’m at fault here. is there something i am missing? i am self taught so maybe there’s something i don’t know that i am supposed to do?

what's your thoughts on karri saarinen's recent post on importance of redesigns?
it's never a good time to do a redesign. it's hard to make it a priority. it's difficult to calculate the roi on it. and if you run your product with a/b testing, every global redesign will tank the metrics in the short term.  
...  
however painful it might be, there is a real need for redesigns, and your product experience suffers if you never do it.  
...  
each new capability adds stress on the product's existing surfaces for which it was initially designed. functionality no longer fits in a coherent way. it needs to be rebalanced and rethought.  
...  
i believe this debt has to be paid if you aim to keep your product experience excellent. if your product evolves fast, you should be paying this debt every 2-3 years.  
[https://linear.app/blog/a-design-reset](https://linear.app/blog/a-design-reset)  
**are you the "embrace timely updates" or “if it does work, don’t touch it” team?**

hiring managers, would be be interested to look into personal projects of an applicant when they have 4 years of experience?
let's say that the candidate has 2 real time projects that are web based and are done for the same client. they add 2 more projects that are apps but are personal projects. would you be interested to look at them even if the candidate has 4 yoe?

how do designers deal with outcomes in case studies…
where the project is old, you were no longer at the company when measurable results could be seen?

any designers working on products using generative ai to deliver value, actual ai products, or you're retrofitting ai into exiting product design?
if you are, what ux points have you identified and incorporated to improve the experience? what's been your experience working with stakeholders, process, and what you've learned?
clarifications:
* i'm not asking how you use ai to do your job. i'm asking about product and ux design where ai is part of the tech stack.
* i'm speaking about the latest generative ai tools that became mainstream. 
* i broke out three scenarios: designing actual ai products, new products that leverage generative ai to deliver value, or retrofitting existing products with genai. there could be other ways.
i'm curious because the space is new to most of us and it's coming our way. i'm dabbling right now. i'd love to hear from those of you who are a head. 
thanks for responding.

what ux design “tea”, drama, or controversies have you seen?
hey folks. in a discussion with some of my peers, the topic of a certain author of medium articles popped up in conversation; one of my peers mentioned how she wish she was “in the know” about miscellaneous industry “tea” or drama. for fun, i said i’d love to dig deep into some hard hitting topics or controversies, or to find silly quarrels between designers to discuss with everybody in my group, and create a write-up of my findings since i tend to lean way too far into stuff like this. i enjoy analyzing both sides of situations and grabbing any valuable information i find- some whacky hobby of mine, i guess. some topics are pretty broad and not “tea”, just interesting conversation starters, so i’d love to hear any potential topics or drama i’ve missed out on, haha. thanks!

what did you notice in those "top 1 %" ux designers which made them successful
would love to use this as a helpful resource for everyone to save and come back to look at.

do you do day work? less than full time freelance? what industries do you target / services do you provide?
i am wondering who among us is working less than full time as a ux designer, and what services are you providing, what industries are responding well to your a-la-carte offerings?

working with requirements
hi everyone! i recently started working as a product designer (fyi there are no senior designers here)—just me and another junior. we are currently working on hiring pms and so, in a way, the head of
product has been acting as a pm. it’s my first time working with a list of requirements which me and the head of p put together. i am trying to understand how requirements can be understood as ia. the head told me that the tabs of the excel sheet on the bottom and the features within each tab is exactly where each “requirement” is supposed to live. frankly, with the project we are working on—some of the features/requirememts in each tab do not belong within some of those tabs as the bigger, whole ux experience—especially because we are working with a vendor who has strict ui/structure requirements (which btw we only found out about after we wrote all of the requirements—before writing them out we thought we would be building this project from scratch). when i try to bring this up, the hop tells me that i need to design things the exact way it’s written in the requirements… what is yall experience working with requirements? are they another form of ia? advice?

any idea why google is doing it?
recently during a meeting on google meet (web) i noticed this chevrons on the left? of buttons, generally they are on right.
i’m curious to understand the design decision behind this, what do you think?
may be because of vision pro/ar/vr
application: google meet (web)
https://preview.redd.it/5fse5xrp24rc1.png?width=318&format=png&auto=webp&s=8cc8b0019cd273c7025383cb59f3a35ceb0cae81

cmv: all designers working on web apps should learn the basics of front-end development. otherwise, they shouldn't be hired.
it doesn't take much effort to learn and i can't imagine how designers even think about designing software without understanding the basics of html, css, javascript, and react. it's beneficial for both the designer and the company. change my mind.

material 3: warning color
why the warning color is so brown on the color palette of m3 design system.
are you guys actually using it or go directly with the seed/value color?

how open are ux'ers to other fields of inspiration?
i've been working with ux for the last year or so, but i've been an industrial designer for 6 years before that or so, since i've graduated on that field. recently noticed some diferences between the two of them. 
for instance - one is that, for some projects we did back in design school we had to search for inspiration and references from beyond physical products during the ideation phases, such as architecture, nature, a specific cultural zeitgeist, all kinds of fiction, you name it. this allowed us to conceptualize ideas beyond what was already seen and expected in said industries, and to create new themes while increasing our cultural baggage. for some projects we could also challenge ourselves to get out of our comfort zone and try to design other kinds of products, or even tip our toes in other design disciplines, or even researched fields such as biomimetics. 
now, perhaps i might be completely **biased** due to my id education, and we would do this things when we could or had to. but i don't tend to see the same enthusiast in ux designers (atleast the ones that i've had the chance to hang out with) for things outside of the digital realm. perhaps a curiosity for tech gadgets, which per se is not bad at all. i'm sure that for companies such as apple or bmw the scope for concepts and future vision tend to be more broad, and they even build completely new objects to accomodate new digital interaction features (because they're rich). but it's not the reality for many other companies. hell, creating new products with a brand new concept is a rare thing even for industrial companies as well, right?
i see that our field is very oriented to metrics, impact indicators, deliverables to provide the best possible user experience to the capabilities of the business and tech available. great, it should! but i also believe that expanding your curiosity to other fields of design and culture could become a source of inspiration for any kind of designer, and that also allows us to tell new stories and take new insights from the world. for instance, the driver dashboard screen from bmw's latest mini model that is a huge interactive circle and mimics the classic mini speedometer, or the apple vision that looks like a scuba diver's glasses.
but how often do you see this big curiosity in most ux'ers? and do you even believe that all of this makes too much of a diference for the range of an ux or pd's career?  
&#x200b;
&#x200b;

what are the top product design blogs to follow? here is a list i created thus far:
**for learning:**
* academy resources blog: [https://blog.academyux.com](https://blog.academyux.com/) \- articles like how to build a great ux portfolio, mastering the product design interview, or current trends in the ux job market. 
* ux design.cc: [https://uxdesign.cc/](https://uxdesign.cc/) \- a collection of articles and resources on user experience design.
* inside design by invision: [https://www.invisionapp.com/inside-design/](https://www.invisionapp.com/inside-design/) \- insights, tutorials, and inspiration from the design team at invision.
**for resources:**
* tools for designers: [https://www.toools.design/](https://www.toools.design/) \- curated collection of tools and resources for designers.
* ux tools: [https://uxtools.co/](https://uxtools.co/) \- comparison of design tools, resources, and articles for ux designers.
* figma resources: [https://www.figma.com/resources/](https://www.figma.com/resources/) \- a collection of templates, ui kits, and community files for figma users.
* nicely done: [https://nicelydone.club/apps](https://nicelydone.club/apps) \- a curated showcase of well-designed saas apps and landing pages.
**for inspiration:**
* dribbble: [https://dribbble.com/](https://dribbble.com/) \- a community of designers sharing their work, process, and projects.
* saas landing page: [https://saaslandingpage.com/](https://saaslandingpage.com/) \- a collection of landing pages from various saas companies for inspiration.
* behance: [https://www.behance.net/](https://www.behance.net/) \- showcase and discover creative work from designers around the world.
* awwwards: [https://www.awwwards.com/](https://www.awwwards.com/) \- recognizes and promotes the talent and effort of web designers, developers, and agencies.
* muzli: [https://muz.li/](https://muz.li/) \- a design inspiration aggregator that pulls creative work from various sources.
* mobbin: [https://mobbin.com/](https://mobbin.com/) \- a hand-picked collection of the latest mobile design patterns from apps that reflect the best in design.  
post any others below...

what are the most innovative and unique form experiences you've seen?
i'd love to see any innovative or modern approaches to collecting information, but also just really well done classic forms, awesome validation patterns, etc. i'd love to see what you all find!

straight to the task, without any intro call
applied for the job, and received a design task without any introduction call or anything. have you guys had similar experience, because it's first time for me.  
also, the task:
https://preview.redd.it/soiqqpfqfuqc1.png?width=801&format=png&auto=webp&s=cd086c83dcfefcdaba6efeea7ac9d3569abf9f0d

a company is claiming my work as their own
hey everyone, this is a follow-up to a previous post about the last several years of my work being under nda. i had decided on an approach (teaser up front, linking to a password-protected page with the details). i wanted to add a web site redesign i did for a popular personal care product since i had done other work on it, such as competitive analysis, content strategy, architecture, etc. that i think are great examples to show. i searched for an image to see if there was anything i could publicly used, and found an image that was perfect. clicked over to the site to see about the copyrights, lo and behold, it's on a marketing company's site, claiming that they did the ux and design on it. the ux is mostly the same that i worked on, they just changed the content in a section in one of the pages. the illustrations the visual designer that i worked with had drawn were replaced. some other small differences here and there, but they were claiming they did things like "provided a new approach to their website architecture" "restructured the navigation" and  "implemented a clear customer journey," which is all the work that i did.
i saved some of the background docs i worked on (competitive analysis, ia, and some wires) but i didn't get to export the screens since it was the client's figma behind their firewall, which i lost access to right after that assignment ended. i've reached out to the visual designer and hopefully he saved at least some of the screens.
has this happened to anyone? i've heard of individuals ~~stealing work~~, taking the credit for someone else's work, but this is a company in my case. i also gave a heads up to the design company i was working through at the time. either way, i'm adding this to my portfolio, and now that i see they are showing the work publicly, i am going to show it publicly as well since its been such an issue to be able to have public examples. 
\*\* update\*\*
clarification: i had nothing to do with the company that took credit for my work and the work of the visual designer i partnered with. my concern, besides it being a shitty thing to do, was that i would be perceived as the one that is taking someone else's credit for this work, but that part is now a moot point (see below). i guess now it's just a cautionary tale.  
i made a decision that there is no need to fret over this. luckily, going through old slack messages i found a link to the figma file and was actually able to still access all of my work and the original visual designs, albeit with view only permissions. grabbing it all now, going to put it into a case study in a password protected page, show just a teaser on the front end like the others. only because i don't want the design company i was working with to get any flack because of me. i'm just surprised that a company would engage in this, but whatever. i'm moving on from it since my case study will now have all the documentation showing all the legwork i did to get to the design and theirs does not.

website with block builder, how to prevent clients from adding too much text?
as a web agency, we sometimes have the budget for a copywriter, other time we don't. 
what just happened, is we launched a website, the designer created a beautiful element with a picture on the left, and a title + 1 paragraph on the right.
you can imagine what follows next, the client added 5 paragraphs of "essential" text to that element.
**how can one prevent things like that?** i asked them to split it up into multiple copies of this element, but i feel that without a copywriter, or someone who enters the texts, clients tend to break the design

ip login design advice
hi there, hoping for some design advice if this is something anyone has had experience with.
i am designing and helping build the front end of a website with multi-authentication and login options, one of them being ip authentication.
in a way, the login requirements were being discovered during the build and the developer has built a quick ui to get something up and working.
this is what we have:
if a user visits the site from an authenticated ip address, they see they are logged in as a user from their organisation, with a ‘x’ to log out, with an “ip login” cta visible, although logged in.
the developer has said that the ip login cta remains as the user may return to that session and want to “reauthenticate” their ip. i’m wondering if there is better wording for that cta. also considering a welcome message for users who land on the site via ip authentication.
tia. i’ve done a little research and not seeing much about what is expected of this type of authentication.

how valuable are designers who know coding (html/javascript, etc) versus those who don't?
i’m an mid-level designer who’s starting to dip my toe in the development world. i’ve just finished an html certification and have started to learn javascript. i’m mostly learning how to code to build a more valuable skillset as a designer. as someone who had no knowledge of programming before last month, javascript is obviously more difficult than html and i’m less interested in it than i am with html and python, etc.
this all probably sounds obnoxious; i’m not the giving-up type and i’m 100% committed to learning whatever i can if it will add value to my career and my worth as a candidate.
in your experience, how much effect do these skills have for uxers (particularly lower- to mid-level)? and if they are quite valuable, which languages are the most helpful to master?

side scrolling mobile tables!
tables are the greatest things in the world, we all know this, but they suck on mobile...
how are you all meeting accessibility on mobile table designs without rotating phones? horizontal scroll on a vertically scrolling viewport gets risky sometimes too, but that can be mitigated usually.
articles on the matter? case studies? apps to investigate?

does this design feature have a name?
you know how a lot of fancier sites use this animation technique where as you scroll, it granularly animates things, such as a content container getting wider, or text animating somehow, etc., and then as you reverse your scroll it reverses the animation frame by frame based on how much you've scroll?
the key part being that every notch of your scroll scrubs through the animation forward or backwards based on your scroll, it doesn't just trigger a whole sequence of animations once the elements are in view.
for example this site https://pebblelife.com/ uses this technique, mostly on desktop.

ux worst offenders - who makes your list?
i was thinking about 3 particular websites that absolutely turfed-out on ux over time, typically because of greed:  
1. quora - it went from fairly simple question/answer threads to ... whatever the hell i'm looking at. it's so easy to click a question and get presented with anything but the answers. it's like the ui underwent entropic decay.   
2. medium - you google a topic, you find an article, and click through. then you get hit with the paywall, except this aint the new york times, it's just a blog platform. bizarre and short-sighted. makes me miss the good old days of blogspot.  
3. glassdoor - the longstanding home for anonymous reviews and ratings of companies and their hiring practices. suddenly it's real-name-authenticated-only, with paid subscriptions, and the reviews are no longer anonymous.   
who else belongs here?

how detailed are your prototypes for user-testing?
hi guys,  
how detailed are your prototypes in terms of clickability of ui elements that are not necessary for the flow that you're testing? if every element is not clickable, you might miss insights during testing. however, making everything work like in the final app is a huge effort...

[question] should we let the user clear the selection they choose in the dropdown field?
hey, guys! i'm having a bit of a design issue. should we let the user clear the selection in the drop-down box? if so, can someone explain to me why and which icon should be the highlighted "x" or the dropdown icon?
https://preview.redd.it/pcjilgjdufqc1.png?width=558&format=png&auto=webp&s=14facd52d73844e83659fd9b32d9ec8340f9e3d0

is this normal on top of applying and interview?
https://i.redd.it/4cp4zrf87bqc1.jpeg

i'm only 18 but have been designing for 3 years....i love it...i made something and was told it was pretty bad...
these folks have an ecom platform that is pretty neat...pay with tasks.  they have many nice people but their head of design is very tough on me...  maybe he wants me to get better...but he told me this is bad.  i love it.  the goal here was to inspire the consumer to pay with tasks.  can anyone give me some pointers on what they would have done differently?
https://preview.redd.it/nell2u2bgaqc1.png?width=1280&format=png&auto=webp&s=506884b2eac19c78a18816b640816ca36d40d0f6
&#x200b;
https://preview.redd.it/63ncflncgaqc1.png?width=2470&format=png&auto=webp&s=edcee111c205b641c13d08798293697cab4c4c18

junior designer, how do i stand out and become a good designer in my team?
hi! i’m currently a junior ux designer at an e-commerce. i joined the company as an intern and was extended to full-time 6 months ago. since then i’ve been mainly doing usability testing, and user research (lots of competitive analysis). the only design projects i’ve worked on so far are 1. assisting another designer with a big project, and serving as back-up and 2. a small project that took about a month for research and design combined together.
my question is how do i ask to be involved with more design projects? don’t get me wrong i love doing research but i don’t want to become a ux researcher, i enjoy design more and i want to gain more experience. how do i stand out if i’m not designing much?

interview presentation
i have a portfolio round interview with a company coming up soon. they have asked me to prepare a deck to showcase 3 projects. however, i feel that i can talk through my process better using my figm file. if i go to the interview with my figma file, would it be considered a red flag? should i just create a presentation where i know i will have to remove a lot of things?

what are books, resources, or advice on navigating office politics, doing work thru relationships, and building relationships at work?
i posted yesterday asking for advice on how to move from senior to lead and most of the replies were about communication, politics, and building relationships. i would love to hear how you think about this area of our work. what tools, exercises, or philosophies do you use? 
thanks in advance!

loving the reddit redesign: was forced to see my subreddit list, which prompted me to unsub from all but 8 of them, and somehow reached the point of 0 engagement. each home page reload shows either no posts or 1-6 posts without the ability to scroll infinitely. ipo redesign "success" at its finest.
https://i.redd.it/s8po6yhfx2qc1.png

question about who should create after the experience in product development
hello all, hope you are enjoying your weekend.
during work, i had a conversation with my team about a particular work and they sayed "we create the experience". i informed them that all stakeholders care about creating things to deliver a great experience. it's not just ui/ux team only. they didn't agree to my comment after. 
to me it was strange they sayed that and felt like something wasn't right. i understand that ui/ux team should guide the stakeholders in product development. silo working is not the best. want to ask whether my team comment was right or not.

how can one differentiate?
the internet is flooded with ui screens, fancy animation and case studies.
the thing is all of it looks the same.
and all are somewhat inferior.
so, is there any way to create something unique??

what trending in websites designs?
what new design styles are popular for websites nowadays? can you share examples of websites that use these trendy designs?

ux design of physical buttons???
when i search for information about buttons on controllers or machines, i typically come across details about video game controllers or buttons within applications. however, i'm working on an engineering project and would like to explore some best practices concerning buttons:
* is it advisable to place the name of the action next to the button?
* where should we position it?
* additionally, an engineer suggested separating different buttons with lines. while i don't immediately see the rationale behind this, i'm interested in reading more on the subject.
it's challenging to find ux-related information that isn't focused on applications or digital interfaces, which is frustrating. 
thank you in advance for any insights!

roughly how long is the lifespan of a saas navigation before it gets totally redesigned?
i work for a video and quiz content saas startup and we are in the midst of redesigning our navigation. i am curious about how many months/years y'all get out of your startup/saas product navigations before they undergo their next iteration/overhaul.
the reason i ask is because we're trying to decide how robust or opinionated the cms powering it should be, when considering some of the nav components which are more complex than a standard dropdown, and various display conditions.
please also mention the size of your company, and how much design influence there is. thank you!

do you think the ux job market will improve in a couple years or continue to get worse?
no secret that tech overall and ux specifically are in a pretty terrible spot right now with layoffs and tons of qualified applicants. i've read the horror stories of senior designers struggling to get interviews.
but for people in the industry do you think it will begin to improve or is this a more long term decline?

why are many ux designer websites often hard to navigate?
so, i’ve been reviewing candidates portfolios, and i frequently saw portfolios that are really hard to navigate, even for senior designers. most of the websites are very slow to load, probably due to uncompressed images. some case studies use images that are so pixelated with text that it’s hard to read. i noticed that most of the issues are from a lack of asset optimization. i think it’s important for ux designer to have a basic understanding how website works.

design to dev handoffs: how much time/cost is figma dev mode saving vs zeplin? any cool alternatives you've explored?
hey all, curious to know your thoughts on the whole dev mode vs zeplin debate. how effective do you find these tools in the whole design-to-dev handover workflow?
personally, i think both tools could be made a bit better but i'm curious to know what you guys think. have you found any tool you particularly like?

smart/dynamic tag selection
anyone familiar with a ui pattern where selecting a tag adds additional tag options to refine the selection? 
so the full list of tags is larger than the user initially sees, and they dynamically update as the user makes selections. i’m trying to recall seeing this pattern somewhere.

what does 0 to 1 mean?
i’ve been in the industry for 5+ years and seen this used a few times. does it just mean a product i built was shipped/launched?

advice on teach and consulting
hi all,
i’m at a point in my career where i would love to be sharing my learnings and experience with newcomers to the industry. likewise i’m very interested in offering my expertise to nonprofit organisations.
what would be the best way to approach that? 
thanks

startup not shipping designs after 2 and a half years of working with them.
hi everyone i work for a small start up since joining there have been many ups and (more) downs with this company. i had taken the job cause i needed experience but the number of changes and issues are getting to be a bit much  
such as complete business changes that then require brand new designs from scratch (twice),  developers leaving or there not being enough funding to hire on new developers, and currently many back end issues that need to be cleaned up.  at the point i’m working towards leaving, however, i can’t include metrics of how our application is doing without actually having shipped designs. i’ve done everything else being apart of the majority of the design process and down to developer handoff. 
it’s been quite a frustrating journey as i’m worried that this will make me look like a less experienced designer or a non legitimate candidate while applying for jobs. 
what would you do if you were in my position and working towards applying to new roles? any advice would be greatly appreciated!

one product, many clients. how work with different client color schemes?
i work for a fintech startup that has a product that integrates into users' mobile banking apps. we are partnered with several clients but each has different branding colors for their app. it has been a struggle to design in a way that keeps the users' experience in mind as well as keeping a consistent theme. the problem i am running into is the color theming. since each client has a different primary and secondary color, i need to either hard code the primary and secondary that could be used in various cases or just stick with the client's colors. this is mainly affecting buttons, but i am not really sure which route to go. if anyone has experience or general feedback let me know.

how's the salary and market  in india these days?
https://www.reddit.com/r/uxdesign/comments/1bj6jwf/hows_the_salary_and_market_in_india_these_days/

ux design events? seattle/van
i’m new(er) to the seattle ux community and looking to meet people in the industry. i currently wfh with a company out of state, so i’ve never met anyone in the industry here.
any upcoming events, meetups, get togethers, etc. in the seattle or vancouver, bc area i should look into?
obviously most interested in meeting and befriending ppl, but also down to learn from others in the industry.
it’s hard making friends as a married dude with a kid 🤣

anyone here designing products/tools for the developer experience?
i'm a team of one providing design support for a platform that also includes me designing tools for developer tools. just curious if anyone else designs for developers and if there are any best practices when designing for a developer. i do not get the type of support i need (i.e. design reviews, no research or content support, etc.) since the org supports saas products.

late-stage capitalism creates a different type of ux job
in the era of late-stage capitalism, the era of ux as a standalone department is over.
may seem obvious to many, but for those entering the field or early on, it needs to be said. 
in today's hyper-competitive, financially driven market, ux only serves as an enabler to the three main pillars of any business: marketing, sales, and product.
gone are the days when ux could claim its own department and hierarchy. 
now, it's about integrating our skills into the broader business strategy to add value where it truly counts (it’s always been that way, but now more than ever).
👉marketing needs us to help move the needle on metrics, improve messaging and positioning.
👉sales need us to help make pitches more impactful and conversations more problem-driven.
👉product teams need us to reduce the interaction cost and improve usability.
adapt or risk becoming obsolete. the market is saturated, automation is on the rise, and financial pressures are dictating design decisions more than ever.
it's a tough pill to swallow, but the truth often is.
so, what's the game plan? it's simple: pick the area you want to align with. align your ux knowledge with marketing, sales, or product. demonstrate how ux can drive success in those areas.
to the ux veterans who believe in the sanctity of a standalone ux department: i challenge you to rethink your position. the landscape has changed. the businesses thriving in this late-stage capitalist environment are those that integrate “ux” into every facet of their operation, not those that isolate it.
let's not view this as a demotion but as an opportunity. an opportunity to influence from within, to drive change where it matters most, and to prove that ux/design is not just about making things look pretty but influencing business decision making. 
edit: yes, i am quite aware it’s been like this for quite some time. but how this manifests itself now is in various titles that may not even have “ux” but are still including ux skills. it’s important to look here.

has anyone here ever created a wiki in ux design?
i have a client and i feel a wiki would be perfect for them. i'm just not sure if designing a wiki is typically a ux design job? personally, the idea of breaking down long text into smaller pieces and to make it more interesting for the user to actually want to read sounds like ux to me, but i could be wrong. i would greatly appreciate some feedback :)

10+ years since "web 2.0" and sites still function like this??? do people even test anything before it gets shipped?
https://v.redd.it/0qvabhbpecpc1

collaborate
all i see online nowadays is platforms to showcase my work. i've learned a lot from collaborating with other uxers - help problem solve or even run my ideas by someone for feedback. besides dribbble or behance i don't know a way where i can connect with someone. am i old school for desiring a whiteboarding session with someone or live feedback - hell even just working along someone on a idea. am i alone here? am i the only one who desires collaboration with others from time to time?

the value of in-depth case studies for simple design projects
hey everyone! i've noticed a trend where designers include lengthy case studies in their portfolios, even for straightforward projects like ecommerce or generic landing pages. it got me thinking - are these detailed case studies really necessary for such well-understood designs? on one hand, they showcase the designer's thought process and attention to detail. but on the other, if the solutions are widely known, why spend so much time and space on them? is the extra effort in documenting every step of the process really adding value, or could that time be better spent elsewhere? would love to hear your thoughts on this. do you find long case studies overkill for simple projects, or do you see them as an essential part of a designer's portfolio, regardless of the project's complexity?
looking forward to your insights!

what does typical work day look like for you? share your current title
https://www.reddit.com/r/uxdesign/comments/1bih1xx/what_does_typical_work_day_look_like_for_you/

let's talk about ux design in digital arts
hello designers,
i'm curious to hear stories of ux designers working in multimedia/vr/artsy studios. i'm interested in tech arts, but probably not to the point of grinding blender/unity/touchdesigner all day. i'm interested to know what happens when ux design and tech arts intersect (multimedia, immersion, installations, ar/vr).
what interfaces/technologies/softwares are you working with? what do you like/hate most about your field? how is it different from more traditionnal ux roles? how would you prepare for such a career?
looking for some inspiration/reality check. cheers!
cheers.

digital crown for iphone
do we keep using the fingertip, as the only mouse wheel for portable devices? i’m struggling to find documentation of a device with a scroll wheel that isn’t worn.
why stop with the apple watch? or the apple vision pro? not to mention extra buttons being added (maybe). sources of input affecting the screen are going to be key to creating future devices. 
but what do you think? are we going to have a future filled with gestures via pinching/blinking, or will there be more physical input required from the user?
either way, the digital crown may not be the perfect solution, but a step in the right direction for the world of input. that is, until a track system, similar to a treadmill, can be put on the side of the phone with smooth movement, with no protrusion on the side of iphone. until then, i like digital crown for iphone.

what do you think is an uncomfortable truth about this profession that often goes undiscussed?
https://www.reddit.com/r/uxdesign/comments/1bi37ur/what_do_you_think_is_an_uncomfortable_truth_about/

where do you find open source sound design for ui?
https://www.reddit.com/r/uxdesign/comments/1bhud1l/where_do_you_find_open_source_sound_design_for_ui/

why does my filters act like this during prototyping?
&#x200b;
[this is the problem \(main filters below\)](https://reddit.com/link/1bhtiqj/video/nlk540xl24pc1/player)
i have created two filter components, one true and one false. i then prototyped them on click to change.
the main filters are both set on "hug" "hug" for width and height with auto layout set at the center (see picture below), what did i do wrong? it just has to change.
[this are the setting](https://preview.redd.it/ynhjsq8n24pc1.png?width=466&format=png&auto=webp&s=829603bc48d238bd8cd5d4e7de3e0cd3b9e88ddc)
&#x200b;
[this are the filters](https://preview.redd.it/73w5gkwo24pc1.png?width=1488&format=png&auto=webp&s=fbdd6d356ce7da2b819f20b01a369f0542ca56ac)
&#x200b;

how to solve infinite nesting
hey there,
i'm building the mvp for the start-up that i co-founded. we are developing a tool to help ai practitioners to test the models they have developed.
to test the model, users create tests and test suites. a test suite contains tests and test suites. you recognize the recursive nature. the user recognizes that a test suite failed and wants to dig deeper to check which tests within which sub/sub/subtest suites caused the test suite to fail.
my current solution is very primitive. i simply nest all the available test suites in one another, but i genuinely dislike it. not only will it fail if the nesting is deep enough, the non-collapsed box takes up far too much space.
i have considered one page per nesting level, but we want the user to monitor where they started. as a solution, i also thought of a breadcrumb to keep track of the nesting level. but that didn't convince me neither. moreover, i though of a file explorer like structure in a sidebar that keeps track of the tests, but the tests themselves don't contain so much information one could use an entire page to fill it. i would love to use a table to display the tests and test suites. but given the recursive nature and the fact that tests might consist of slightly different attributes that doesn't seem to work.
needless to say that i am not a trained designer but a software engineer without much ui/ux experience. i don't use figma or any design tool. i draw up sketches of the users' flow and the screens and try to translate it to code immediately.
i am very much looking forward to any ideas how to take this further.
thanks so much!
[the non-collapsed test suite that takes up far too much space.](https://preview.redd.it/mv25322mi3pc1.png?width=2115&format=png&auto=webp&s=c164d691315bd8ef0960eb9f544404213f76dcd2)
[the nested test suites](https://preview.redd.it/ffvw8vmei3pc1.png?width=2089&format=png&auto=webp&s=6fa5641e4fa01db411b5047431337e5a05c978f0)

2 different kinds of step/progress indicators within one app
below you can see 2 sceenshots with progress indicators. on the right is a higher level menu and on the left is a form that you can find once you click on one of the steps in the menu (einkommen):  
i want to indicate the progress on both screens, but i am unsure if it's a design sin to have 2 differently designed progress indicators in the same app.
https://preview.redd.it/6f162eykb3pc1.png?width=1164&format=png&auto=webp&s=b0309fa185b1618c38e5b9e36fac60518dfbb42d

ux design in cybersecurity
i was wondering if there's a niche in cybersecurity as a ux(/ui) designer and how this plays out.  
cybersecurity is a topic that interests me as a ux designer and would love to know more about this.  
anyone with experience in this field and want to elaborate on this? (what do you do, what needs to be learned,...)

can you use checkmarks in radio buttons like this?
can you use checkmarks in radio buttons like this? and what makes them different from a checkbox, i'm so confused... in this example they're making three states for the radio button, filled, empty, and undeterminate, another question is do you even need undeterminate in radio buttons?
https://preview.redd.it/qs4gvqigr2pc1.png?width=1000&format=png&auto=webp&s=d3dca6b23960c2f217e3efc53f995acf76140470

role of packaging in overall ux of a product or service
hi, i recently used 'blinkit' fast-delivery app (india), which has focused on the packaging a lot, and it works, it amplified that 'good' feeling once i received the product as expected. i am someone who considers functionality over aesthetics, and would rate an app 5 on 5 if the service/product as they claim(in terms of quality or convenience), but blinkit experience was different than this opinion.
i would appreciate if everyone can share their opinion on this, how do you think packaging is crucial in ux or is it just a compensation of poor product?
thanks!

how do you feel about product designers who live it 24/7/365
i’m talking… free time is spent trying new figma plugins and redesigning their portfolio. nights and weekends they are reading about design on x and playing with new design trends. 
that was me in my 20s… in my 30s, striving for wlb. but it does make it harder to keep up.

suggestions for colour palette
i joined as ux designer in a company where there are no other designers and till now developers were taking design decisions as the focus of the company is more on functionality of the product and less on the ux design.  
this is the colour palette they are using as of now
https://preview.redd.it/4sr21aazw0pc1.png?width=829&format=png&auto=webp&s=b0b72affee2a248a3a73f4e461b55b5daaea4a5a
i feel most of it quite similar and the colour palette can be optimised. they don't have a design document but these colours are defined in the codebase. as it is a legacy product some the colours defined are not even used. 
this is what i have come up with. is there any suggestions.
https://preview.redd.it/whi2hj3bx0pc1.png?width=673&format=png&auto=webp&s=bcc15eadc2aa3e7f077857a6a8e870178fec3f3e
ps: this is not the only palette but this mainly used for backgrounds and hovering.

review of a ux community for a design jam
in a design jam right now and our problem is about this startup that is trying to be a ux kind of linkedin. however, they are facing high turn over and low retention rate. since the audience is currently just ux designers, thought i'd ask this here.   
what do you think of the idea as presented below, as a user? would you join it? why or why not? any flaws that prevent you from joining? don't want to influence it so will post my thoughts afterwards. thanks!  
\----
# what is ux was here?
ux was here is a dynamic community-based platform that brings together ux enthusiasts from diverse backgrounds under one virtual roof. with features like explore, job listings, messaging, posts and events, ux was here offers a comprehensive digital hub for all things ux. the platform was created to foster connections and take on existing problems and build solutions as a community. 
# who uses ux was here? 
ux was here caters to individuals passionate about ux, irrespective of their level of experience or professional background. the inclusive community welcomes everyone, from newcomers seeking to explore ux concepts to seasoned professionals who have worked with startups and fortune 500 companies alike.  
# how does it work?
ux was here provides a user-friendly interface that facilitates networking, learning and engagement within the ux domain. users can leverage the platform to engage in discussions, seek advice on portfolios or case studies, discover and attend upcoming ux events, and explore job opportunities tailored to their skills and interests. the goal is to have endless opportunities for users to connect, learn and grow within the ux community.   
\----

searching for innovative design
one thing that has been increasingly frustrating me [is the lack of authenticity in the industry](https://productidentity.co/p/niche-product-design).
almost every app and website looks the same. i see the same patterns, trends, and color palettes again and again. design mainly in tech has become boring.
i get that standardization is inevitable and isn't exclusive to the industry but it kinda sucks to see designers aim for eyeballs and more sandwiched websites.
instead of looking at big tech and other mainstream design galleries, i noticed that small-niche products and websites often take a different design direction—which brings me back some joy.
i'm curious to hear your thoughts.

taking over mid-project at a startup
i've just joined a startup, but there's a twist: their lead designer left, and now i'm taking over mid-project without any previous design references. to make matters worse, the design file is a complete mess—i can't even find a single screen! the product's complex, and catching up feels like a puzzle without all the pieces. any advice on tackling this challenge head-on?

just got a job and i don’t know what i’m doing. help
i’m fresh out of uni and was fortunate enough to find a job. the problem is my education is in graphic design and whilst that was the role i was hired for, it has quickly pivoted to ui/ux and at times i fear i have no idea what i’m doing.
initially i was tasked with sprucing up their socials, and polishing up documents. just general day to day basic graphic related tasks. shorty after they decided they needed to completely remake their website to match the quality of the new designs i’ve been making and that of course has been my new task. using all the new branding that i have created from scratch, i have finished the first iteration of the website.
i know how to use figma, and the web developer there is absolutely great. he has been teaching me a lot about the workflow between developers and designers. it has been completely invaluable to me. the employees all love the first iteration and i will be now redesigning the 3 more, along with 3 more rebrands. problem is i absolutely hate the design, i think it’s complete trash. i feel like i don’t know what i’m doing. call it imposter syndrome but i’ve had maybe one semester in ux and i don’t even think that was enough to cover basics. 
i’ve been working my ass off trying to learn more pretty much every hour i have available to me. are there any free resources available anyone could point me to ?
considering it’s a startup, i’m very much aware i’m being taken advantage of, i dont think anyone there understands the role of a graphics designer. however, with the way the job market has been for postgrads i can’t afford to complain

user flow for additional pages?
hi, i am redesigning a user flow for a task management system.  the developers designed all the pages for employees, but also created those extra pages for the admin, instead of just adding the "admin menu section" if the login is done as an admin. i hope i am clear here. 
my question is how do i show that "if i logi n as an admin, i will see all the projects/tasks menu items but also the extra admin items" in a ux user flow? i am sorry if this unclear. thanks!

multi-language blog, redirect or show error when a certain language is not available?
let's say you have a blog in 3 languages.
* /en/blog-post
* /nl/blog-post
what would the right course of action be, when a certain language is not published, because it's not filled or set as draft in the cms. i haven't found a good solution that feels okay, some ideas
* redirect user to blog root page. (with an error message)
* throw a 404 error message.
what is the right course of action here?

as a junior designer how can i check that if my solutions are really worth it?
i know one solution is to work on case studies, but i feel like it takes a lot of time. the main problem i personally feel with case studies as a junior designer is that i don't know if my solution really generates an impact on the user or on the business. yes, i wrote a nice big case study using big words like information architecture, user flow, user personas, blah blah, but i want to see if all this big process and xyz things made an impact on the business or user. and if not, was it worth it? as a designer, i feel like i am not here to sell my process to anyone. i am here to sell my solutions. following a good process is very important, but why would any user or business care about how the process works? as a designer, it's my job to follow a good process and generate a solution through the process. how can i check if my solutions are really worth it or not?
(correct me if i am wrong) one solution, according to me, to this problem is if i go through the same process multiple times, understanding every aspect of the process. i will know how to make the most out of it, and after a point in time, i will come up with good solutions.

developers overly critique my designs and want me to create their designs that aren't ux friendly. i don't know what to do.
i'm working in a team of 3 and honestly finding it a bit of a struggle to stay humble and happy. i create a design, the devs check it, then a couple of weeks later they tell me there's an issue with it. and alright, i'm fine with that. we go over the design again, fix it.
then we started looking at another design, that's new and they went all in critiquing it and drawing their own designs that aren't exactly ux friendly. i'm not opposed to ideas but the 70% of the ideas they have aren't ux friendly and when i provide opinions and data why, they ignore it, saying they want it done this way. i feel miserable.
edit: thank you all for advice. it is very helpful to me in this time when i feel like i need help. i'll put it to good use in our next meeting.

what is the most time consuming task while designing?
which one is it?
- product research,
- wire-framing, 
- creating user flows and  interfaces.
- brand identity.

is there a fundamental shift coming with ai that no one seems to be talking about?
i have been having a few conversations with ai consultants and engineers over the last 12 months. i love learning about whats happening in the space and understanding the nuances and opportunities that come with new advancements. i have a concern that we are so blinded by ai "designing for us" that we could be missing out on a wider opportunity.
is there anyone talking about using ai to dynamically tailor experiences? i am talking about going even further than tailored content recommendations that are delivered by the likes of netflix and amazon. i'm talking about full dynamically rendered experiences that are tailored to the end user.
e.g.  imagine you are looking to adopt a pet dog and you land on an adoption site. rather than giving you a complex strew of pages to navigate, the website could instead deliver a 5-minute video with the dogs that are currently available to adopt. someone else who lands on this site could be given a completely different experience. different dogs and formatted in a completely different way, possibly in the form of a 500-word blog post with short fact files on each dog.
i have been trying to formulate some concepts on a blog post but interested to hear if anyone has had any thoughts on this. is this cloud kookoo land or an potential future?

user interview vs usability test with existing features
when should i conduct user interviews vs usability tests with existing features (making no changes)? (do these have different purposes?)
at my company, stakeholders have already decided which feature we want to implement. we discussed how adding this new feature (i'll call this "feature a") to our user profile page would encourage users to use the profile page more, attract more customers, etc.
i want to conduct some research before actually designing feature a so i can design it better, but i'm not sure how to proceed. for my personal projects, volunteer projects, and school projects, i usually conducted interviews first (asking broad questions) and then decided which feature i wanted to design based on user pain points. and then i tested the wireframes and prototypes with users. but this time, we have already decided on the specific feature we want to implement, and i want to design it effectively. we did receive a few customer support tickets about users asking if we have feature a available on our website. this is one reason we decided to add feature a, but tbh the ceo was the one who strongly desired this feature's implementation (mainly his decision).
i thought conducting user interviews or initial user testing with the user profile page might be beneficial. however, i'm unsure how to proceed due to the lack of guidance 🙁. i am a junior-level designer, and there's no senior-level designer, ux researcher, or pm on the team. i essentially have to take the lead on this with another junior-level designer.
i think this has become a two-part question, but which approach would be more effective in this situation – user interviews, initial user testing w/ current userprofile, or something else entirely? i will definitely test my design later, but my question is where should i start before actually designing the feature? what kind of questions i should ask, should i ask broad questions? i feel lost 🥲🥲

help? what is this called?
hi,
👋🏼 first post here.
i'm new to the ecommerce space and have noticed while looking at other sites, that for some e-commerce sites there is a giant block of copy at the bottom of product category pages. most times it is light grey, small and not styled in anyway. sometimes it has high contrast with the background but the line length is horrific so in the end, this type of thing is really unreadable.
this seems to be an seo tactic but i don't know what to call it? is it ethical? is it a form of keyword stuffing?
thank you for any insight on this practice and what to name it.
(added an image in the comments)

who owns user problems?
hey guys,
i recently joined a company where there seems to be a bit of tension between design and product. essentially designers don't really trust pms to make the right decisions and complain that none of the decision making is based on actual kpis. i agree with the criticism, i think the product rigor isn't the best, but also, our product is playing catchup to our competitors so i also see why there is a large focus on implementation.
that being said, there was a debate around who "owned" user problems, ***i.e: who was the person to decide on what problems users actually have and should be tackled first?***
while i think a designer should be involved in the discussions here and should be arrived at as a team with research and data but ultimately it is the product team that needs to make that decision. 
i've been approaching this by trying to be the person that bridges the gap between the two teams but feel uncomfortable saying that i disagree with the wider design org as a whole. i wanted to see what others felt about this, should design or product be the ones that define the user problems we try to solve for?
also any tips in working in an environment where product and design dislike each other? fwiw i've never had a problem with any pm or designer and usually both parts of the org get along really well in my experience so this is definitely new to me
thanks!
&#x200b;

examples of ux related sketching by hand. share discussion or photos of how you use it or have seen it being efficient.
curious how much you draw by hand (if at all) before you get into wireframing.   
personally i use it for form ideations, user flows, or ideate how things will look on mobile.
can you also share if this is common at your workplace. and what tools you or coworkers use.

still get nervous when giving presentations
i’m a senior product designer! it’s honestly so frustrating - no matter what i do i’m always so nervous beforehand. once i get into the rhythm i’m usually pretty good.
i’ve never really been that good of a public speaker - and i get practice makes perfect, but i’ve been practicing for ~8 years haha.
anyone else like this? tips/tricks. i’m also a huge introvert / infj, with diagnosed anxiety anyways haha.
note: this hasn’t prevented me from landing pretty good jobs, interviewing, etc. but it can feel crippling at times.

senior designers: what early career mistake will you never make again?
https://www.reddit.com/r/uxdesign/comments/1befuzn/senior_designers_what_early_career_mistake_will/

is anything in the code or a way in chrome inspect to see what the breakpoint of a website is?
i'm assessing the breakpoints used for my company. looking at google analytics and also best practice like the image below, but i'm interested in how the competitor websites are doing. is there anything in the code of the site which can tell me the exact px they are setting xs,s,m,l,xl ?
https://preview.redd.it/ieisumhen4oc1.png?width=5706&format=png&auto=webp&s=dc9c019e28c78269cba02e989a4f9f0e0e0799f1

what is different in email design?
i will soon have to work with email design, and i feel like this is a different environment from the one i am used to. like what quality of image is required, what are the mobile and desktop formats i should work with, etc...
does anyone know any resources where i can study more about this topic or examples of email design deliverables?
would really appreciate any guidance.

ux design vs digital marketing, which one is a better career path?
some sources say ai threatens ux designers more, others say it threatens marketers more. i also find conflicting answers regarding which one is more in demand amd has a higher salalry as well. 
does anyone have experience with both?

very accessible way to download a picture from reddit
the ux decision of all time

web redesign process when it’s currently a complete mess
so i have a visual design background, have done a fair bit of ui design but not that much ux.
i just met with a potential freelance client who isn’t really sure what they need but are unhappy with how their website and app works (poor navigation, search function, looks ugly, is slow) so lots of ux problems.
they asked me to redesign the brand to start with (keep the logo but refresh colours, fonts, illustrations) but to me that seems like it’s not addressing the core problems - it is important sure but it barely scrapes the surface of what their problem is.
i usually work with clients who really know what they want and it’s either been a specific job like creating a new brand from scratch or a campaign. 
really unsure how i should approach this job. i was hoping to pitch a web redesign and building it myself on webflow but unfortunately they have a catalogue of products (not for sale) and over 1000 blog posts that they want to keep on there, not to mention good seo.
it’s on wordpress and managed by developers in india who they are not happy with. 
their idea was that i refresh their brand identity, they show that to their developers who will infer and design the website but tbh that sounds like throwing myself into a headache as it won’t fix their needs. they want guidance and to be led on this but i feel in the deepend myself. 
how do i approach this brief?

why do you think that microsoft egde (internet explorer) was never loved and used by users?
i just thought of this, personally i always ignore edge or explorer as it was called. i remember that ie was pretty slow, but edge has a lot of improvement and new features and still it's hated. why is that?

in 2024, is there a use case for low fidelity wireframes like balsamiq, illustrator, etc?
i recall taking classes on wireframing around 2014 and the instructor said that it helps to use these when you are just proposing layouts and flows.   
but when i got hired professionally in 2015 my employer treated me like a clown for showing low fidelity mockups. saying that they were unprofessional and we instead went with fully flushed out designs in photoshop, though they were not responsive... i was hired specifically to redesign their ancient websites. but apparently i was wrong? they also gave me crap about drawing with a pencil.   
since then my career has thankfully been either drawing on a whiteboard to flush out ideas, or "designing in the browser" around a styleguide a designer made.   
but i am working on some volunteer projects and want to show some low fidelity drawings for proposed improvements.   
wondering who still is using balsamiq? are you creating low fidelity stuff in figma? do some clients not mind these? i got the impression that clients hate these?

let's talk about design system, multi-brand and framework
hey,
i am looking for external advice/opinions on more of the process and structured side of **ui** for a company. technical stuff about **design system** and software framework. let me know if i'm off topic, but i'm sure people with experience will be able to join the discussion. see, i work at mid-size company (b2b) that the maturity level of ux/ui is emergent, but not structured. 
our components/products is aim for the end-user, but we are selling it to others business that put the components into their final product. we sell a touch-screen and also a mobile app to control their product. 
we are currently having architecture change in software and it is the moment that i can say what we need as user interface requirements. dev team plan to use flutter for the touch-screen (embedded) and for the mobile app ionic framework. **what are your experience with having an unified design system but with different framework?** 
we are looking into using **m3** for the touch screen and android mobile app, but also planning to use **apple hig** for the ios app. why is that? because the value is not in our product, it is essentially in the product that the b2c sells. we want the user to be as close as possible to what they actually use right now (android & ios) and to decrease the learning curve of a new interface for the end-user.
one constraint that we add on top of that is that the business that we sell to want to have  customisation of the ui to differentiate each other. now, keeping control on all of those ui components will become a big problem with what i'm seeing. 
&#x200b;
* **have you guys have any experience with a multi-brand design system or a type of business like us?**
* **any thoughts on using material design and apple hmi at the same time within your own design system ?**
* **does the framework choice will affect what design system that we can use?**
* **where i can find those kind of expertise? not for myself but for the company**
i'm the new ux/ui guy(1 year in the company), but have a certain limitation also on what i know about managing different framework with a design system. also, you can understand there is not a "design team", so kind of a lone wolf here. no design system used in the past, no process at all, the interface were before made by the dev team.
feel free to comments, open to discussion, positive and negative!

website information which one is the right one ?
hello everyone,  
i am designing a website, and i have some basic information i have to show (don't mind the icons in the circles, they are not done). which one do you think is the best for the users eye ?  
thanks a lot !  
martin 
https://preview.redd.it/i464nr0cuxnc1.png?width=1636&format=png&auto=webp&s=23b22b46776863f724077e81ea4b349b0f02dee3

how do you deal with a micromanaging ceo
i recently started working as a ui/ux designer for a startup of a product which has been around for 2 years. when i joined, i was told that ceo is particular about design and i was glad that i’m finally getting a superior who give a shit about design. soon learnt that i should’ve been careful for what i wished for. 
he has been wanting to check all of our design work and so far hasn’t had anything nice to say about our designs. even when he is happy with the work he is non-verbal about it and responds with a “ok”. 
he puts up a stern front, which i understand might have stemmed from insecurities of folks taking advantage of him but design requires two-way communication and always end up with him shutting me up to give his inputs. doesn’t even consider my suggestions or ideas.
the hyper scrutiny is giving me anxiety on what he has to say when designing rather than what the user is going to experience. a lot of the design revolves around his input and basically i have become his personal pixel pusher. would appreciate any advice on how to deal will such a boss.

late realisation regarding projects i’ve worked on for the client . i feel i’m screwed . how do i get out of this situation ?
context- i’m 30 yo. have 4.5 years of overall experience and 3.5 years in user experience design. ive got a background in physical product design & i landed in ux due to non availability of 3d projects in he consultancy i work for 
my leaning in ux since 3.5 years has been hands-on.
i’ve worked for a client for almost 3.5 years as a user experience designer. i used to work in silo 95% of the time and hence didn’t know the right ux methodology to use during the ux research process, didn’t know the rights questions that i need to ask to both the stakeholders and users as i didn’t educate myself through any online courses regarding the same. before i graduated, i was told be a few friends that ‘ux is doable and it’s very easy up learn. if you can pursue physical product design, you can easily do ux.
fast forward 4 years, i’m compiling all the work i’ve done for the client and i’ve realised a lot of loopholes and lack of depth both in the design process and in the designs. neither i asked the right questions during the user interview nor my design fully solves the user’s problems completely. i have to add these 2 projects i d worked for the client as i need to showcase real world projects to the recruiters . i’ve realised that i was more of a pixel pusher.
i want to switch not just due to bad pay. i want to switch for better exposure, for growth and to learn to work in a team.
i can’t go to the client and gain more clarity on the needs and requirements of the project as i no longer work with them.
i will re-educate myself regarding the user research methodologies, best ux practices , ui design principles etc.
but how do i showcase these projects which are flawed and have a lot of loopholes?

any ux designer working in consultancies?
im currently thinking about looking for jobs in a design consultancy. i have only worked as an inhouse product designer and have no clue how the consultancy life looks like. 
this particular consultancy is hiring for a client whose headquarters are in the city i live in so i wouldn’t be travelling as much. but i’m curious as to hour much i should charge hourly. they seem to match how much i am getting in my current job but hourly. that’s probably not a good idea right?!

hiring managers! what are the common mistakes you see in applicants for internships/jobs?
i read some where that a vast majority of applicants for ux jobs aren’t even designers or  don’t have a portfolio.
what percent of applicants would you say fit the criteria of the job and what percent would you say don’t fit the criteria and what can someone do to improve their chances?

double login advice
my workplace is currently redesigning a new customers website/online platform. they require several login/authentication methods. there is ip authentication, openathens authentication and email/password login.
ip and openathens allows access to certain resource pages. email/password login is required for access to a user account page with extra functions.
i’m trying to have a conversation that having to press “login” twice, to gain access to both, seems a little confusing. i didn’t know there would be two levels of login until after development. i’m suggesting tweaks to either the design (currently one logon button with a drop-down to access different authentication/login types), or just the nomenclature of the login links. the developer is shutting me down at any suggestion. i want to improve the ux but i guess i don’t have the verbal arsenal to “speak louder” than this developer.
any thoughts, advice?
*edit to fix a typo!

what format can i use to overlay 3d animations over a camera screen?
i want to be able to overlay some 3d animations over the camera screen, similar to the ones attached. they need to have a transparent background. currently i've been using lottie file format that i have made in after effects and exported. however, if i create 3d layers in ae, those don't get exported correctly in lottie, as lottie doesn't support 3d layers. any suggestions as to what file format i can use for this, or even suggestion for a software i can use to make and export them?
any help in this matter would be greatly appreciated! thanks  
\*added pictures in comment, somehow they don't appear in the post

learn css, html, java vs learn webflow
okay, help me out guys. senior ux/ui designer and design system owner here. i’d love to start creating my own portfolios and personal websites - build my skills in web dev which will help my day to day job along with giving me freedom to create sites for my own personal development. 
i’m not looking to transition into front end dev any time soon. given the above and that nocode tools like framer/webflow are gaining so much traction…. should i learn these tools rather than vanilla css and java ?

how to do an ux evaluation
hello, 
i am a front-end dev, and i got a task to make a one day ux evaluation of our older app ui.   
should i do the the heuristic evaluation first? i had one class on ux design, but since i fully commited to front-end, i don't had so much expieriences in the ux field.   
any recommendation how should i approach this task?

what methods do you use to map how something works/how things are related to each other?
https://www.reddit.com/r/uxdesign/comments/1bb9g7x/what_methods_do_you_use_to_map_how_something/

when a jd describes "a strong information architecture knowledge" what does it actually mean?
i know what information architecture mean, but how does one portray that in a portfolio, and how can you truly explain the complications of an ia for a very complicated saas product that requires one to know the entire backstory/set up of the product?

famous filmmaker spends 90% outlining script and 10% writing. apply to ux?
rian johnson, creator of knives out, said he spends 90% of his time outlining a script and 10% actually writing. as i become more senior, i feel like my approach has become similar. anyone else?

what is moment studio?
i see more and more designers looking for work on linkedin who currently work for “moment studio”, which appears to be a design agency out of florida. they also seem to employ nearly 500 designers, who i’m assuming are not all full time employees. 
is it affiliated with a school? is it paid work? contract? freelance? real companies?

progress bar advice
reddit family, i'm reaching out for your advice. 😊
picture this:   
we're navigating the onboarding flow of a mobile app, divided into 4 steps. 
here's the question i'm juggling with:   
what should the progress bar read at each step, especially at the start and end?   
should we start with 0%, 25%, 20%?
curious to hear your take on this!   
what's your strategy for setting these values in a way that's informative and encouraging for users?

need help with the buttons experience.
hey everyone! need some help.
this is detailed page of a stock of a stock recommending website. 
https://preview.redd.it/s2n8itgos9nc1.png?width=2880&format=png&auto=webp&s=00f54dcaf693b115be8291e6918f78dcf3a9eb4f
https://preview.redd.it/tbyb75dft9nc1.png?width=2880&format=png&auto=webp&s=ba8492bec3fc81d505b1e17d81179c45faea894f
there are four ctas "watch expert insights", "add to watchlist", "mark as invested", "invest now". i am confused how should these buttons work
&#x200b;
case 1: users who haven’t invested yet and wants to invest in the stock may watch the expert insights video and click on “invest now” which will ask user to select their brokers and on selecting will take them to their broker’s website. when they come back we can ask them their entry point and the the mark as invested button will change to " invested at ₹342" 
&#x200b;
case 2 : users who haven’t invested yet and wants to invest but not at the moment and just wants to add it to their watchlist. upon clicking, button will change to "added to watchlist"
&#x200b;
users can see stock “marked as invested” in the “my investments” section and stocks “added to watchlist” in the “my watchlist” section in their profile 
&#x200b;
if user marks a stock as invested, there's no use of add to watchlist button as they can track that stock in "my investments".. should i disable the watchlist icon button or change the text as invested at the top or should i  place the "mark as invested" with “add to watchlist" (similar to youtube like and dislike button)?

anybody else out there love making user flows?
https://www.reddit.com/gallery/1baa08b

best practices for indicating an asset is created with ai
are there best practices or patterns you have seen to indicate to user an item has been generated by ai? i'm looking for ways to indicate in a transparent manner assets an org generates that are ai. this would apply to translations, images, video, music, and speech.

if someone asked you, what do prototypes prototype? what would you say?
https://www.reddit.com/r/uxdesign/comments/1b9x5rd/if_someone_asked_you_what_do_prototypes_prototype/

alignment of design and business
hi designers. i always struggle with the phase in design process where designs have to be reviewed and approved by the business. i know it’s one of the primary goals of design to meet bus objectives, but the process feels briken to me. how do you approach it? what tools do you use to test your designs in terms of alignment with bus goals?

what do you guys think about qr code menus?
they became popular in 2020 but if i still see them now, i find them inconvenient, and a disturbance to the ordering experience (the discussing, pointing to food images, sharing laughs etc) esp if i’ve taken elderly with me. whats your thoughts?

which layout works best for this email platform?
i'm currently working on some quick mid-fidelity wireframes for an email platform and my focus is on easy navigation and usability. i'm stuck between 2 versions, one with a separate sidebar for filtering results. the target user this platform is fast-paced and needs to be able to send/skim messages on the go. given that, which layout seems like the better choice?
thanks in advance for your input!😊
(quick note: if you notice additional issues with the wireframes so far that you want to point out, please do so! i'm always open to insight & feedback)